 
•	Sex discrimination case against Walmart to influence gender law: Supreme court to decide million-plus class action: Retailer's victory would be blow to workplace cases
•	Sex discrimination case against Walmart to influence gender law: Supreme court to decide million-plus class action Retailer's victory would be blow to workplace cases
•	Supreme Court set to take up massive Wal-Mart discrimination case
•	Supreme Court to review super-sized sex discrimination suit against world's largest retailer
•	Winning Lottery Ticket Almost Tossed; Overlooked Deductions; Bethenny Frankel's New Show; Women in Wal-Mart Suit Seek Class Action Status; New Photo-Sharing App for Smartphones
•	Supreme Court to review super-sized sex discrimination suit against world's largest retailer
•	Women take case against Wal-Mart to highest court
•	Women take case against Wal-Mart to highest court
•	Wal-Mart case could shape how big one suit can get
•	Supreme Court to review super-sized sex discrimination suit against world's largest retailer
•	A Soldier's Story
•	Walmart in rights fight
•	A better, fairer way to change the law
•	Supreme Court case involving Wal-Mart could help determine how big one lawsuit can get
•	Wal-Mart to seek rejection of class action over alleged sex discrimination.
•	Wal-Mart Pushes (Shoves?) Law Firms to Promote Minority Lawyers
•	WSJ LAW BLOG: Wal-Mart Pushes Law Firms To Promote Minority Lawyers
•	Discovering Facebook: social network subpoenas and the Stored Communications Act.
•	Call on Walmart to ‘buy local’
•	TIMELINE-Chronology of Wal-Mart discrimination case
•	SCENARIOS-Wal-Mart sex discrimination case at US top court
•	FACTBOX-Key facts in Wal-Mart discrimination case
•	PREVIEW-Wal-Mart to argue sex-bias case in US top court
•	Timeline: Chronology of Wal-Mart discrimination case
•	Global Labor Coalition to Urge South African Competition Tribunal to Reject Walmart or Set Conditions and Standards
•	Class Warfare; In Wal-Mart discrimination case, class action law faces a critical test. WASHINGTON
•	WSJ UPDATE: Bayer's U.S. Healthcare Unit Sued In $100M Discrimination Suit
•	WAL-MART DISCRIMINATION CASE HEADING TO SUPREME COURT
•	In Wal-Mart Fight, Class Action Law Faces Test
•	Alliance for Justice Issues Report on Landmark Walmart v. Dukes Case



Guardian International Pages
Sex    discrimination  case against Walmart to influence gender law: Supreme court to decide million-plus class action: Retailer's victory would be blow to workplace cases

Dominic Rushe, New York      
617 words
28 March 2011
The Guardian
GRDN
16
English
© Copyright 2011.    The Guardian.    All rights reserved.      

A 60-year-old Walmart employee will come up against the world's biggest retailer this week in another round of the largest sex discrimination case in history.

In a case legal experts say will redefine discrimination law in the US, the supreme court will tomorrow begin hearing arguments why Betty Dukes and more than a million women who worked for Walmart between December 1998 and the present day should be able to sue the retailer in a class action.

Walmart is appealing against an earlier court's decisions to let the case proceed after a judge said Dukes' lawyers had presented "significant proof of a corporate policy of discrimination".

Walmart, which is America's largest private employer, says the case has spun out of control and threatens to cost the retailer billions of dollar if it is allowed to proceed. The firm denies wrongdoing and argues that the accusations are too numerous and too diverse to be tried en masse.

Twenty firms including General Electric and Microsoft have filed papers with the court in support of Walmart. The case began in 2000 when Dukes filed a sex discrimination suit claiming she had been denied the training she needed to receive promotion.

The civil rights lawyer Brad Seligman, representing Dukes, claims Walmart systematically discriminated against female employees, who were under-represented in management positions and were paid less than male colleagues.

Whatever the supreme court decides is likely to have a profound impact for other groups of women bringing sex discrimination suits against employers in the US, said Melissa Hart, director of the Byron R White centre for the study of American constitutional law at the University of Colorado. "It's been decades since we have had the courts examine a case as important as this."

Hart added that she expected a ruling by June and that a loss would "make it increasingly difficult for women to challenge discrimination in the workplace."

Should the courts rule in Dukes' favour, lawyers expect a new set of discrimination class actions to be brought, not just on behalf of women, but also for minorities or people with disabilities. A win for Walmart would be a big blow for nationwide job-bias cases, making it harder to argue that employees who work in different stores and hold different jobs have enough in common to be a class.

Dukes started working at the retailer's Pittsburg store in California in 1994 as a part-time cashier for $5 an hour. She was promoted to customer service manager but then says her path to further advancement was blocked. When she complained, arguments ensued and she was demoted. She still works for the company, earning just over $15 an hour.

The lawsuit claims that women account for only a third of what Walmart considers management. According to Seligman the representation of women in its workforce drops steadily the further up in the firm. In 2001 women outnumbered men by nearly 4-1 among hourly supervisors but comprised only 45.1% of the "support managers", the highest-level hourly supervisory position.

In salaried positions, Seligman argues, women comprised 37.6% of assistant managers, 21.9% of co-managers, and 15.5% of store managers. Figures from 2001 show that it took women an average 4.38 years from the date they were hired to be promoted to an assistant manager position compared with 2.86 years for men.

Captions:

Betty Dukes: her legal action against Walmart began more than 10 years ago

Document GRDN000020110328e73s0001d



Guardian International Pages
Sex    discrimination  case against Walmart to influence gender law: Supreme court to decide million-plus class action Retailer's victory would be blow to workplace cases

Dominic Rushe New York      
617 words
28 March 2011
The Guardian
GRDN
16
English
© Copyright 2011.    The Guardian.    All rights reserved.      

A 60-year-old Walmart employee will come up against the world's biggest retailer this week in another round of the largest sex discrimination case in history.

In a case legal experts say will redefine discrimination law in the US, the supreme court will tomorrow begin hearing arguments why Betty Dukes and more than a million women who worked for Walmart between December 1998 and the present day should be able to sue the retailer in a class action.

Walmart is appealing against an earlier court's decisions to let the case proceed after a judge said Dukes' lawyers had presented "significant proof of a corporate policy of discrimination".

Walmart, which is America's largest private employer, says the case has spun out of control and threatens to cost the retailer billions of dollar if it is allowed to proceed. The firm denies wrongdoing and argues that the accusations are too numerous and too diverse to be tried en masse.

Twenty firms including General Electric and Microsoft have filed papers with the court in support of Walmart. The case began in 2000 when Dukes filed a sex discrimination suit claiming she had been denied the training she needed to receive promotion.

The civil rights lawyer Brad Seligman, representing Dukes, claims Walmart systematically discriminated against female employees, who were under-represented in management positions and were paid less than male colleagues.

Whatever the supreme court decides is likely to have a profound impact for other groups of women bringing sex discrimination suits against employers in the US, said Melissa Hart, director of the Byron R White centre for the study of American constitutional law at the University of Colorado. "It's been decades since we have had the courts examine a case as important as this."

Hart added that she expected a ruling by June and that a loss would "make it increasingly difficult for women to challenge discrimination in the workplace."

Should the courts rule in Dukes' favour, lawyers expect a new set of discrimination class actions to be brought, not just on behalf of women, but also for minorities or people with disabilities. A win for Walmart would be a big blow for nationwide job-bias cases, making it harder to argue that employees who work in different stores and hold different jobs have enough in common to be a class.

Dukes started working at the retailer's Pittsburg store in California in 1994 as a part-time cashier for $5 an hour. She was promoted to customer service manager but then says her path to further advancement was blocked. When she complained, arguments ensued and she was demoted. She still works for the company, earning just over $15 an hour.

The lawsuit claims that women account for only a third of what Walmart considers management. According to Seligman the representation of women in its workforce drops steadily the further up in the firm. In 2001 women outnumbered men by nearly 4-1 among hourly supervisors but comprised only 45.1% of the "support managers", the highest-level hourly supervisory position.

In salaried positions, Seligman argues, women comprised 37.6% of assistant managers, 21.9% of co-managers, and 15.5% of store managers. Figures from 2001 show that it took women an average 4.38 years from the date they were hired to be promoted to an assistant manager position compared with 2.86 years for men.

Captions:

Betty Dukes: her legal action against Walmart began more than 10 years ago

Document GRDN000020110327e73s0002m



USA
Supreme Court set to take up massive Wal-Mart discrimination  case

Warren Richey      
Warren Richey Staff writer      
1,041 words
28 March 2011
The Christian Science Monitor
CHSM
ALL
English
© 2011    Christian Science Monitor.    Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.    All Rights Reserved.        

On Tuesday, the Supreme Court will decide whether 1.5 million women can form a 'class' that faced the same injury - in this case, gender-based discrimination by Wal-Mart - or not.

The United States Supreme Court on Tuesday takes up the largest employment discrimination lawsuit in US history, a case pitting the world's biggest retailer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., against more than 1.5 million current and former female employees.

The lawsuit, filed in 2001, alleges that Wal-Martdiscriminated against women workers by paying them lower wages and promoting them less often than male employees. If the female workers win, it could cost Wal-Mart more than a billion dollars.

Wal-Mart denies the allegations.

But that's not the issue before the high court.

The justices must address whether lower court judges were correct in allowing the women to join together in a single, massive lawsuit against Wal-Mart.

How the court answers that question could make it harder or easier for plaintiffs to band together in a wide range of lawsuits, including cases involving discrimination, civil rights, the environment, securities fraud, and dangerous products.

Corporations and business groups, who have long sought to limit the size and scope of such class-action lawsuits, have filed friend- of-the-court briefs siding with Wal-Mart. Women's groups and civil rights organizations have filed briefs supporting the female employees.

Marcia Greenberger, founder of the National Women's Law Center, says the case will be critical in the fight for women's rights and employee rights.

"The bigger the employer, the more important the class-action feature," Ms. Greenberger said at a recent American Constitution Society discussion.

"For many, this is the only meaningful way some workers can get access to the courts," added Suzette Malveaux, a law professor at Catholic University.

Other analysts say the court will likely approach the case with a broader perspective.

"Is this the right way to try the case? That's what the Supreme Court will focus on," says Andrew Trask, a Washington lawyer who specializes in defending against class-action lawsuits.

The nationwide class-action suit against Wal-Mart seeks an injunction ordering the retail giant to end its alleged discriminatory employment practices. It also seeks back pay and punitive damages.

A class-action lawsuit is a legal case filed on behalf of a number of plaintiffs who suffered similar injuries. It seeks to achieve a degree of judicial efficiency by lumping similar plaintiffs together into one large case against the same defendant. Lawyers who file such suits identify an appropriate group of the victims to represent the larger class of victims.

Lawyers for Wal-Mart say the case should not proceed as a single class-action lawsuit. They say the class as approved by the lower courts violates federal rules of procedure that require all members of the class to share a common injury. In addition, they say the massive lawsuit makes it impossible for the corporation mount an effective defense.

"The class members - potentially millions of women supervised by tens of thousands of different managers and employed in thousands of different stores throughout the country - assert highly individualized, fact-intensive claims for monetary relief that are subject to individualized statutory defenses," said Theodore Boutrous of Los Angeles in his brief on behalf of Wal-Mart.

He added that the claims made by the designated class representatives "cannot conceivably be typical of the claims of the strangers they seek to represent."

The women's lawyer, Brad Seligman of Berkeley, Calif., countered in his brief that Wal-Mart wants to break the class action down into store-level cases. "This outcome would not only waste judicial resources," he wrote, "it would deprive plaintiffs of the ability to challenge and seek relief from Wal-Mart's systematic, company-wide practices."

Mr. Seligman says that the average individual claim represents an annual wage loss of $1,100. Standing alone such a claim would be too small to pursue, he said in the brief.

Wal-Mart is the nation's largest private employer, with 41 regions, 400 districts, 3,400 stores, and more than a million employees. Each store employs from 80 to 500 workers. Hourly employees work in 53 departments and 170 job classifications. The company had sales of $405 billion last year and net income of $14 billion.

At its core, the class action suit accuses Wal-Mart's top management of fostering an old-boy network and a corporate culture infused with gender stereotyping. This culture existed company-wide and was evident in promotion and pay decisions made at the regional and store level, Seligman says. The result was that female workers companywide were treated as second-class employees, according to Seligman.

Female employees, on average, were better performers and more experienced than male workers, yet their pay at Wal-Mart "lags far behind" male employees in every major job, Seligman says.

"Women at Wal-Mart also face a classic glass ceiling," he wrote. "While women comprise over 80 percent of hourly supervisors, they hold only one-third of store management jobs and their ranks steadily diminish at each successive step in the management hierarchy."

Wal-Mart responds that its company-wide policies forbid discrimination and promote diversity. The plaintiffs' statistical analysis does not measure whether store-level employment decisions were, in fact, discriminatory, the company's lawyers say.

From 1995 to 2001, they say, women throughout the US were paid 77 percent of what men were paid. In comparison, the plaintiff's statistics show Wal-Mart paid women 85 to 95 percent of men's salaries during that same period, they say.

They say that at the retail store level, women comprised two- thirds of all managers and were two-thirds of all employees.

Wal-Mart's lawyers say the plaintiffs' case is built on a deceptive statistical analysis and anecdotes of "a smattering of isolated incidents dating back to the 1980s."

They say the plaintiffs are unable to prove that Wal-Mart maintained a company-wide policy disfavoring women and that the company's managers engaged in intentional acts of discrimination.

Document CHSM000020110329e73s0000o



Supreme Court to review super-sized sex    discrimination  suit against world's largest retailer

By MARK SHERMAN 
Associated Press 
1,024 words
28 March 2011
12:42 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2011.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON (AP) - Christine Kwapnoski hasn't done too badly in nearly 25 years in the Wal-Mart family, making more than $60,000 a year in a job she enjoys most days.

But Kwapnoski says she faced obstacles at Wal-Mart-owned Sam's Club stores in both Missouri and California: Men making more than women and getting promoted faster.

She never heard a supervisor tell a man, as she says one told her, to "doll up" or "blow the cobwebs off" her make-up.

Once she got over the fear that she might be fired, she joined what has turned into the largest job discrimination lawsuit ever.

The 46-year-old single mother of two is one of the named plaintiffs in a suit that will be argued at the Supreme Court on Tuesday. At stake is whether the suit can go forward as a class action that could involve 500,000 to 1.6 million women, according to varying estimates, and potentially could cost the world's largest retailer billions of dollars.

But the case's potential importance goes well beyond the Wal-Mart dispute, as evidenced by more than two dozen briefs filed by business interests on Wal-Mart's side, and civil rights, consumer and union groups on the other.

The question is crucial to the viability of discrimination claims, which become powerful vehicles to force change when they are presented together, instead of individually. Class actions increase pressure on businesses to settle suits because of the cost of defending them and the potential for very large judgments.

Columbia University law professor John Coffee said that the high court could bring a virtual end to employment discrimination class actions filed under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, depending on how it decides the Wal-Mart case.

"Litigation brought by individuals under Title VII is just too costly," Coffee said. "It's either class action or nothing."

Illustrating the value of class actions, Brad Seligman, the California-based lawyer who conceived of and filed the suit 10 years ago, said the average salary for a woman at Wal-Mart was $13,000, about $1,100 less than the average for a man, when the case began. "That's hugely significant if you're making $13,000 a year, but not enough to hire a lawyer and bring a case."

The company has fought the suit every step of the way, Seligman said, because it is the "biggest litigation threat Wal-Mart has ever faced."

A trial judge and the federal appeals court in San Francisco, over a fierce dissent, said the suit could go forward.

But Wal-Mart wants the high court to stop the suit in its tracks. The company argues it includes too many women with too many different positions in its 3,400 stores across the country. Wal-Mart says its policies prohibit discrimination and that most management decisions are made at the store and regional levels, not at its Bentonville, Ark., headquarters.

Theodore J. Boutrous, Wal-Mart's California-based lawyer, said there is no evidence that women are poorly treated at Wal-Mart. "The evidence is the contrary of that," Boutrous said.

The company is not conceding that any woman has faced discrimination, but says that if any allegations are proven, they are isolated. "People will make errors," said Gisel Ruiz, Wal-Mart's executive vice president for people, as the company calls its human resources unit. "People are people."

Ruiz paints a very different picture of the opportunities offered women at Wal-Mart. She joined the company straight from college in 1992. "In less than four years, I went from an assistant manager trainee to running my own store," she said. "I'm one of thousands of women who have had a positive experience at Wal-Mart."

Kwapnoski, who works at the Sam's Club in Concord, Calif., is one of two women who continue to work at Wal-Mart while playing a prominent role in the suit. The other is Betty Dukes, a greeter at the Wal-Mart in Pittsburg, Calif.

"It's very hard for anyone to understand how difficult that is and what courage that is," Seligman said of Kwapnoski and Dukes. "They're Public Enemy No. 1 at Wal-Mart and they are known for their involvement in this lawsuit. Nevertheless, they get and up and go to work every day."

Kwapnoski didn't want to discuss any issues she faces at work as a result of the suit.

She said she has seen some changes at Wal-Mart since the suit was filed in 2001. The company now posts all its openings electronically. "It does give people a better idea of what's out there, but they still can be very easily passed over." she said. "But before you didn't even know the position was open."

The suit, citing what are now dated figures from 2001, contends that women are grossly underrepresented among managers, holding just 14 percent of store manager positions compared with more than 80 percent of lower-ranking supervisory jobs that are paid by the hour. Wal-Mart responds that women in its retail stores made up two-thirds of all employees and two-thirds of all managers in 2001.

Kwapnoski said she and a lot of women were promoted into management just after the suit was filed, although she has had only a couple of pay increases in the nine years since. She is the assistant manager in her store's groceries and produce sections.

Now, she said, promotions are back to the way they were before, favoring men over women.

She said she's hoping the long-running court fight will force Wal-Mart to recognize that, stories like Ruiz's aside, women are not valued as much as men are and that her bosses will begin to "make sure that good men and good women are being promoted, not just men."

------

Online:

Briefs in the case: http://tinyurl.com/4ckzfz5 

7 

Document APRS000020110328e73s001t0

News; International
Winning Lottery Ticket Almost Tossed; Overlooked Deductions; Bethenny Frankel's New Show; Women in Wal-Mart Suit Seek Class Action Status; New Photo-Sharing App for Smartphones

Fredricka Whitfield, Jacqui Jeras, Ralitsa Vassileva, Christine Romans, Nic Robertson, Kate Bolduan, Dan Simon      
8,418 words
27 March 2011
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
English
©2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. All rights reserved. Prepared by CQ Transcriptions, LLC.      

FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: We begin this hour in Libya where NATO has agreed to take over the military mission. All 28 member nations of the alliance agreed today to support the U.N. Security Council's resolution to protect Libyan civilians.

The first flight under NATO command could happen as soon as tomorrow. Take a listen to this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

WHITFIELD (voice-over): That is the sound of anti-aircraft gunfire streaking the sky in Tripoli, unclear whether it has anything to do with that announcement about that move about NATO.

Our Nic Robertson says it started about an hour ago. He felt at least six large explosions in the city. He says Tripoli is clearly bracing for more airstrikes.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WHITFIELD: President Barack Obama will address this nation tomorrow night on the military operation in Libya. We get more details now from CNN's Sandra Endo in Washington. Sandra, what more do we know about what the president is likely to say?

SANDRA ENDO, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Fredricka, we know President Obama is set to deliver that speech tomorrow night regarding the conflict in Libya and the U.S. involvement in the effort.

He's expected to lay out the goals of the mission and give an update as to how it stands right now. The president is facing criticism over getting involved in the conflict in the first place and lawmakers from both parties question the lack of congressional consultation and the price tag of the effort.

Today on the morning political talk shows, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton defended the president's decision to join the international coalition.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HILLARY CLINTON, SECRETARY OF STATE: I think we prevented a great humanitarian disaster, which is always hard to point to something that didn't happen, but I believe we did. Now we're beginning to see because of the good work of the coalition, to see his troops begin to turn back toward the west and to see the opposition begin to reclaim ground they had lost.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ENDO: Still, there are a lot of unanswered questions as to if the mission will be successful and if it will be successful if they don't oust Libyan dictator Moammar Gadhafi. That is not the goal right now of the mission.

Also another question, how long will the U.S. remain involved despite the president saying military action will be limited? Defense Secretary Robert Gates didn't have an answer for that one this morning, but he added this on CBS's "Face the Nation."

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ROBERT GATES, DEFENSE SECRETARY: Regime change is very complicated and can be very expensive and can take a long time. And so I think the key here was establishing a military mission that was achievable, was achievable in a limited period of time and it could be sustained.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ENDO: And Secretary Gates admitted the Libya conflict and Gadhafi are not a national security concern, but both secretaries Clinton and Gates say the U.S. involvement in Libya shows support for the international community -- Fred.

FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: Sandra Endo in Washington. Thank you.

A look at some of the other top stories. The Syrian government is taking new steps to respond to violent anti-government protests there. A source close to the government says the country's 48-year-old State of Emergency will be lifted. That law gave the government power to override the constitution. Syrian President Bashar al Assad is expected to address his nation this week.

Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter is heading to Cuba tomorrow at the invitation of the Cuban government. It's his first visit in nine years. He'll meet with President Raul Castro about possibly repairing U.S.-Cuban ties.

And workers trying to avert a meltdown at the damaged Fukushima nuclear plant in Japan are dealing with radiation worries. At least 19 of them have received potentially dangerous radiation doses. Three workers were hospitalized last week after stepping into a contaminated puddle. They are expected to be released tomorrow.

And the company that operates the Fukushima nuclear plant in Japan faces increasing pressure to get the crisis under control. Many questions about how honest it is after the disaster persists. Our Paula Hancocks talks to a researcher who warned the company about its vulnerabilities and said the company did nothing. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The destruction a tsunami can wreak on a nuclear power plant is clear. What's not clear is whether the owners of Japan's Fukushima plant could have predicted it. One seismic researcher says yes, telling CNN he warned TEPCO two years ago that there was evidence of an earthquake and a structured (ph) tsunami in the same area in the year 869. He asked the safety committee to consider this when deciding how to protect the plant.

YUKINOBU OKAMURA (through translator): Data on tsunamis can be found in layers of the earth, and my institute has been researching this. Based on this data, it indicates that there was a huge tsunami that occurred previously. That's why I asked the question.

HANCOCKS (on camera): Okamura who heads up a national research institute says that TEPCO instead decided to focus on a 1938 earthquake in which one person died. And he says that they barely mentioned the word "tsunami" throughout the whole meeting.

TEPCO has not responded as yet to Okamura's allegations and although they hold press conferences day and night, direct questions are rarely met with direct answers.

HANCOCKS (voice-over): At this press conference reporters repeatedly asked why there were no preparations for such a big tsunami to hit and called on TEPCO to apologize. The Japanese government has told TEPCO to be open and transparent so as not to lose the public's trust, but the government itself has not escaped criticism.

Fifty-eight percent do not approve of the way they have handled the crisis according to a poll by Kyodo news agency. This man says, "I won't forgive the government for hiding information and the tyranny of the power company." He says, "I'm protesting because the government is not taking action."

But this man tells me, "I can understand the situation. Because with the earthquake and tsunami combined, there was nothing they could do."

Some TEPCO information is even being publicly questioned by Japan's nuclear safety agency several hours after TEPCO announced levels of iodide 134 in the turbine room of reactor two were 10 million times higher than normal. Japan's nuclear safety agency said, "We feel that the data made public by TEPCO today is a bit strange and a bit odd. I have been told TEPCO is going to reevaluate the numbers." Confusing an already confused public.

Paula Hancocks, CNN, Tokyo.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

WHITFIELD: All right. Now to some severe and potentially dangerous weather in this country, from flooding to mudslides. Jacqui Jeras in the "Weather Center." I'm speaking of those nasty mudslides in California. JACQUI JERAS, AMS METEOROLOGIST: I know. Yes, there's a lot going on. An incredible video that we had to show you as well, Fredricka. We will start out with the pictures out of California. This is in San Pablo. Let's go ahead and take that full so you can get a better look at what's going on.

So much rain here in the last two weeks. The ground is saturated and it's been starting to slide. Several homes are at risk at this time. We've seen some decks and things like that begin to fall but no complete homes. People have been evacuated from that area and the ground remains unstable at this hour.

All right. Let's move on to St. Louis, from mudslides to snow. How about that? Yes, snow yesterday in St. Louis, as much as six inches in the suburbs. A little bit latish in the season, but not unheard of to get this type of snowfall. It's gone today, but you're going to be bitterly cold tonight with temperatures below freezing. Overnight lows this time of the year average around 40 degrees. So, yes, you can go ahead and complain, St. Louis.

All Right. Let's take you to Hastings, Minnesota, where they are continuing to the battle against the flood. This is along the Mississippi River. Hastings is a suburb of St. Paul if you don't know the area. More than 1,000 people showed up to sandbag around over 100 homes which are at risk. The river is already above flood stage expected to crest at major levels as we head into the latter part of this upcoming week.

The other big weather story this weekend is severe weather. We've been really been seeing that focused in on the southeastern parts of the country. We have a new severe thunderstorm watch right there, that yellow box that you see, that's in effect until 10:00 Central, 11:00 Eastern. And these have really been hail-making storms throughout the day today and a lot of lightning associated with them as well.

A little concern about some training taking place here that we could see some flash flooding. Savannah under a severe thunderstorm warning right now. And you can see this cell just off to your west of downtown. You need to get inside and stay indoors until these storms have moved off and out of the area because you could see some real hail with them.

All right. Our weather system here is really just the demarcation line between the cold air and the warm air. Take a look at Atlanta, 52 degrees while it's 81 degrees in south Georgia at this hour. So our frontal boundary is right in this area, and it's not going to budge a whole heck of a lot in the week ahead. So everybody on the northern tier of the jet stream has seen very cool temperatures and on the southern tier we're just seeing this little sliver of that real warm air.

Storm systems travel from west to east within the jet stream so we'll continue to see active weather here as we head through the next week at least or so. I just want to show you a couple of those travel delays which have been ongoing today. Pretty minor. You can't complain too much. About only 15 minutes for you. In Atlanta, we've got volume delays in West Palm Beach, but we're expecting more delays at the airports tomorrow, Fredricka, especially in Florida, including Atlanta and then out West because of the rain and thunderstorms that we'll be experiencing.

WHITFIELD: Wow. All right. Tough week. Thanks so much, Jacqui, appreciate it.

You know, we've been seeing protests all around the world, even across this country. This time we're seeing some pretty volatile protests taking place in the UK. At the root of it, the country's budget.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

WHITFIELD: Outrage over budget cuts is spilling into the streets of London. This weekend tens of thousands of protesters took to the streets, very upset about cuts that could mean eliminating thousands of public sector jobs. The demonstration actually turned violent when reports say a group went on a rampage. They smashed windows, clashed with police, and threw paint at Britain's 2012 Olympic countdown clock. One protester says what happened in London shows just how angry people are getting.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It shows just how much people feel and how much people are angry. This really is (INAUDIBLE). This needs to be listened to.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WHITFIELD: So that scene of frustration is playing out across Europe. Let's bring in CNN international correspondent Ralitsa Vassileva to give us a better understanding of what is at the root of this. Why are people so angry about these cuts in particular?

RALITSA VASSILEVA, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Because of the austerity measure, they are very deep cuts. For example, in the UK, these are the deepest cuts since World War II that they are enacting. Three hundred thousand jobs in the public sector.

Students are facing a tripling of their tuition costs. And some say they have no chance of getting an education. They just won't be able to afford it. There will also be salary cuts and bonuses also cut of this huge public sector. Unlike the United States, you know, in Europe there's a huge public sector. A lot of people are impacted. So the pain is stronger. The cuts are very deep. And it's spread out among a larger portion of the population.

WHITFIELD: Do people feel like there are no options. this is the way it's going to be or is there some wiggle room that perhaps those 300,000 jobs might find their way back into the equation?

VASSILEVA: For now, the government has said this is absolutely necessary. They are going through with it. There is no way around it. The economy has to be fixed. They are struggling with a huge deficit, around 10 percent at this time. And that they are going to go ahead with it.

Of course, like in the United States, there's a debate going as to whether this will hurt the recovery, a very fragile recovery just like in the United States. We have the same debate here. Should we cut government spending to fix the economy or will the medicine cause the economy to get sick again? So that is a very similar debate. However, it's different because it's affecting more people.

WHITFIELD: Ralitsa Vassileva, thanks so much. Appreciate that.

All right. Every year, new entries are added to the Oxford English Dictionary. Take a look at this year's additions. We'll tell you what they mean straight ahead.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I didn't say I hate them, I'm just saying we don't need them here.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Does fear of terrorism outweigh freedom of religion. "Unwelcome: The Muslims Next Door" CNN tonight 8:00 Eastern.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

WHITFIELD: Let's talk money and education. Getting into college is only part of the battle. Paying for it, another. Our Christine Romans looks at what parents need to know about finding financial aid.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

OLIVIA POGLIANICH: I'm in the process of waiting. Waiting. That's all I can say.

CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Eighteen-year-old Olivia Poglianich is waiting to find out if she's been accepted or not.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I got the letter that stated everything they need and they're reviewing and the package hopefully.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, so now they're ready.

ROMANS (on camera): A straight A student, this senior at a Long Island high school has applied to 15 schools. But Olivia, like millions of others, faces another challenge, how to pay for her education. Money matters as much as grade point average.

POGLIANICH: Affordability is a major part of my decision. For the next four years, will the financial aid from the nation, will that continue throughout the four years?

ROMANS (voice-over): Olivia has filled out the FAFSA form which stands for the Free Application for Federal Student Aid. It helps decide billions of dollars of student financial aid.

Olivia is also a QuestBridge scholar which helps students apply for various college scholarships, but many don't know about their options. Princeton Review publisher Robert Franek says do as much research as possible and start early.

ROBERT FRANEK, PRINCETON REVIEW PUBLISHER: Lots of students and families were making a mistake early on in their college research. And this mistake was crossing an expensive school off of their list of consideration early on without following through and finding out how much financial aid that school's actually giving out.

ROMANS: Olivia's mother was involved from the start.

CLAUDIA POGLIANICH, OLIVIA'S MOTHER: Everything is very time sensitive and the sooner the paperwork gets in, the money's kind of divvied out on a first-come first-serve basis. So you really have to be on top of your paperwork and your taxes and have everything in on time.

O. POGLIANICH: You just ask every college specifically because even after asking the general questions, the specific requirements of one particular school differ greatly from another school.

ROMANS: As April 1st draws closer, Olivia and her mother are nervous and hopeful.

C. POGLIANICH: Reach for the sky. Reach for the sky.

O. POGLIANICH: I'm excited to be going to college no matter where I go. I'm actually pretty happy about my future.

ROMANS: Christine Romans, CNN, New York.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

WHITFIELD: Olivia, her mother and experts say universities do have money to give, you just need to ask. And here are some other tips: discuss financial aid early; do your research, they say; and development a relationship with the school.

All right. This might surprise you. Dog food, of your paperwork and do everything on time. Dog food, lap pool, all, under the right circumstances, you can actually deduct on your taxes. You'll be surprised at what else you can claim.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

WHITFIELD: Breaking news now from Libya. An alleged rape victim in Libya, who was hauled away while reporters watched yesterday as she was telling her story, apparently has been released. She was frantically claiming that she had been beaten and raped by government troops. Let's go to Tripoli right now and Nic Robertson with the latest on her status. How is she doing?

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, we don't know how she's doing. And we've just heard from a government spokesman, but I think we should be very cautious about whatever we hear from this government spokesman because oftentimes what he says doesn't match reality.

Let's listen to what he said and I'll explain after.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MOUSSA IBRAHIM, LIBYAN GOVERNMENT SPOKESMAN: This woman has been released because, of course, she hasn't committed, you know, any particular major offense. She just entered a place she wasn't supposed to enter. She made claims about being kidnapped and raped. This is a criminal case against four individuals. They do not present anybody but themselves. The individuals have been investigated. They have their rights as well just like she has her own rights. They have a lawyer. The general attorney is looking after her case. She is now with her family.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ROBERTSON: Well, we've been told by the government there that she's with the family, with her family. But when we asked could we go and see them? The government official said, well, no, that would be up to the family. And when the journalist said, well, we've been in touch with her family and they say yes, the government official wouldn't say if we could go and see her.

Of course, government officials when control when we're allowed to leave the hotel and when we can't leave the hotel.

And I also asked this government official about his allegations that he had called her a prostitute, that the government here has smeared her on state television. They are accusing her of being a prostitute. And he wouldn't answer that question. He wouldn't back away from that.

So really what we're hearing from the government that she's been released and that her legal case is moving forward against the alleged rapists, I think really needs to be examined carefully, when we met her again, when will we be able to see her and verify for ourselves what the government is telling us is actually the truth this time -- Fredricka.

WHITFIELD: All right. Nic Robertson, thanks so much in Tripoli, appreciate that.

A look at our other top stories right now. Syria is taking new steps to respond to violent anti-government protests. A source close to the government says the country's 48-year-old state of emergency will be lifted. That law gave the government power to override the constitution. The cabinet is expected to resign next week. And President Bashar al-Assad is expected to address his nation in the next few days.

Jimmy Carter heads to Cuba tomorrow. The former U.S. president got the invitation by the Cuban government. He'll be meeting with President Raul Castro to talk about trouble U.S.-Cuban relations. Cuba's Congress is soon expected to ratify sweeping economic and social reform.

The neon glow of the Las Vegas strip lost its luster building by -- or I should say building by building last night during Earth Hour. Hundreds of the world's famous landmarks including casinos turned off their lights. The fifth annual Earth Hour is a symbolic show of support for energy conservation.

There are seven very lucky state workers in Albany, New York, today. They just struck it rich winning Friday night's mega million lottery drawing. The jackpot, $319 million.

All right. Every year new entries are added to the Oxford English Dictionary. Take a look at this year's additions. We'll tell you what they mean unless you know already, straight ahead.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

WHITFIELD: LOL.

JERAS: OMG.

WHITFIELD: Do you ever use that in your like day-to-day vernacular?

JERAS: Apparently people do.

WHITFIELD: Yes, so much to the tune now that it's actually in the dictionary -- Oxford Dictionary because they're legitimate. Jacqui Jeras here. Now we're in the "Chatroom." We're going to chat about these things.

The symbol of the heart.

JERAS: I know. So four times a year they add new words and the criteria is basically they have to be common, people have to use them in regular language, and they've had to be around for a little while.

So thanks to things like texting and tweeting, we now have some new vocabulary apparently according to the Oxford English Dictionary.

This one kind of cracks me up because you see this like on bumper stickers.

WHITFIELD: Yes. Forever. It's not new. '

JERAS: I heart you. It's a symbol. This is the first symbol ever that they've put in the book.

WHITFIELD: That's probably one of the first symbols that, you know, kids are learning how to draw when they're in school.

JERAS: Right.

WHITFIELD: So now it's got a place in the Oxford English Dictionary.

JERAS: And it's a verb, not a noun.

WHITFIELD: This is not saying this heart symbolizes the heart but --

JERAS: I heart you. WHITFIELD: Love you or something like that.

JERAS: There you go.

WHITFIELD: They need to consult with us first. We'll tell you what's apropos.

JERAS: So here's another one. Muffin top. You know about the muffin top? You got a muffin top at home?

Of course we don't here. No, I'm just kidding. So it's like when your pants are too tight and you've got a little roll there and it goes over the top of your pants.

WHITFIELD: Oh is that what's going on?

JERAS: Yes. People -- a lot of people have muffin tops. Wear looser pants, something. I don't know. But that's --

WHITFIELD: I was a little in the dark on that one. OK. We know about LOL, OMG.

JERAS: LOL, OMG.

WHITFIELD: That cracks me up.

JERAS: (INAUDIBLE)

WHITFIELD: It has me LOLing.

JERAS: But I've never said it out loud. But I asked your crew because they're a lot hipper, I hate to say it, that you or I happen to be.

WHITFIELD: OMG.

JERAS: They use it in their language. OMG. Which is so much better than saying what it stands for. And if you don't know, OMG.

WHITFIELD: Oh, my gosh.

JERAS: Yes, gosh.

Absolutely. But here's what I didn't know. This one's interesting. Did you know this one?

WHITFIELD: I did not.

JERAS: WAG. I didn't hear this one either. Apparently this was made up years ago, but it's made a comeback now because of the World Cup. All right. WAG stands for wives and girlfriends.

WHITFIELD: WAGs over here. (INAUDIBLE) referred to, WAG.

JERAS: Wives and girlfriends. There you go. And then, FYI. That one I'll use in regular language. On and by the way, FYI, whatever. WHITFIELD: I guess that is a little catchy. So that's in the dictionary now too.

JERAS: For your information.

WHITFIELD: All right. What else do we have?

JERAS: Oh, this is kind of a fun one. The Chicago lottery, did you hear about this guy? Can we move on to that? Do we got it? Yes. Irvin -- Irvin Prizvorsky (ph) -- Irvin, I'm sorry if I got your name wrong.

WHITFIELD: Yes, he's lucky times two in a very big way.

JERAS: So apparently he bought a lottery ticket March 2010. So over a year ago, this close to the deadline, Fredricka, of not being able to cash it in. You have to do it within the first year or whatever. He was going through all of his tax papers and all of a sudden realized, oh, look what's in my tax papers, it's a lottery ticket that he never checked out.

WHITFIELD: He lucked out.

JERAS: He didn't know he was a winner.

WHITFIELD: It's not like he was looking for this ticket, you know, for a year now and then came across it.

JERAS: No, just happened to be there. Went to the store to check --

WHITFIELD: And he then actually checked the number.

JERAS: Oh, I may as well check, why not?

WHITFIELD: And then a winner.

JERAS: Low and behold, nine million dollars later.

WHITFIELD: OMG.

JERAS: Nine --

(LAUGHTER)

WHITFIELD: I'm just kidding. We can all say it now because it's legit. It's in the dictionary.

OK, speaking of tax deductions and preparations, that young man was going through his tax papers, found the lottery ticket. OK. As you are now preparing your tax papers, deductions, preparations, all that good stuff. Come to find out there are a few things that you could deduct that maybe you didn't know about.

JERAS: Yes. People are getting rather creative in how to --

WHITFIELD: And it's working. JERAS: It is. These are shocking to me. Go ahead.

WHITFIELD: OK. Weight loss, for one.

JERAS: And how does that --

WHITFIELD: The amount of money that you are spending -- this is a health matter -- the amount of money that you are spending on various weight loss programs. That too can be a deduction.

JERAS: Only if there's a medical justification, apparently, is what they say. So if your doctor says, eat more vegetables, you can't write off more vegetables. But if he says, you have to maybe get lap band surgery, that you're so obese then this is a serious risk to your life, apparently you can write that off.

WHITFIELD: And apparently if you want to get a lap pool, maybe in that effort to lose weight, you can write off your lap pool too for health reasons. You get this installed in your backyard or in some portion of your home.

JERAS: Right. Apparently, there was a case in California where a man had serious neck and back injuries and his doctor said the only way you can really safely exercise and help keep your weight down is to swim. And so he puts a lap pool in his backyard.

WHITFIELD: That's a good 15, $20,000 or something like that.

JERAS: Yes. My neck has been kind of --

WHITFIELD: I know. Me, too! Oh! OMG.

(CROSSTALK)

(LAUGHTER)

WHITFIELD: FYI.

JERAS: One other one really quick -- I just want to mention the dog food because I thought this was great.

WHITFIELD: Oh, yes. What's with the dog food?

JERAS: This is not everybody at home, yes.

WHITFIELD: Oh, OK.

JERAS: This is not you and me writing off our...

(CROSSTALK)

JERAS: A seeing eye dog or a service animal, you can write off their food and medications...

WHITFIELD: Well, that makes perfect sense. Absolutely.

JERAS: -- and that kind of thing. And then also, if you have a dog for security at your business.

WHITFIELD: Oh, OK.

JERAS: But that's all a business expense.

WHITFIELD: I love to claim all the time that my dog is all about security in her own little way.

JERAS: She is! Absolutely.

WHITFIELD: Yes, her way. She's very, very gentle, but you know, she's got a mean growl and bite.

JERAS: Except for when there are thunderstorms.

WHITFIELD: So watch out! Right.

(LAUGHTER)

WHITFIELD: OK. Thanks so much, Jacqui. Appreciate it.

All right. So perhaps you're a reality TV show fan. Are you, Jacqui? Are you hooked?

JERAS: Some of them I like, some of them not so much.

WHITFIELD: OK, well, one break-out star is hugely, hugely popular because of her boldness, her beauty, and of course, her brand. Any guesses on who I might be talking about?

JERAS: Oh, gosh. Half of them.

(LAUGHTER)

WHITFIELD: OK. All right. Hint, Bethenny Frankel...

JERAS: OK.

WHITFIELD: -- of "Housewives" fame of New York. And now she's got her own show, "Bethenny Ever After." OK, I'm telling you all this because I sat down "Face to Face" with her. She's actually a very unique individual. And next week, you're going to hear a little bit more about how she's handling fame, a new family and fortune.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

BETHENNY FRANKEL, AUTHOR, REALITY STAR: I just think people want someone that they feel that they can trust. If you're going to watch someone on television and you're going to invest your time, you would rather feel like they're really bringing it and giving it to you. I mean, there are a lot of reality shows that are sheer entertainment value and there's a lot of drama. And people, you know, are in full make-up when they're in their pajamas. But my show just isn't one of them.

It's just -- it's a reality sitcom. It's the ridiculous situations that just happen to occur in my life. And it's an emotional roller- coaster. It's crying, it's laughing. You don't know what to expect next. It's life. It's -- I mean, I'm sure it's why I got my own show because my life is just a little crazy. But the truth is, most people's lives are crazy. Women's water breaks and the baby doesn't come out.

(LAUGHTER)

FRANKEL: Most people on TV, it's, like, the water breaks and now the baby out. That's not what happens. You're are sitting in -- you know, eating Italian ices in the hospital...

WHITFIELD: Right.

(CROSSTALK)

FRANKEL: -- for 24 hours.

WHITFIELD: I think I went out to dinner (INAUDIBLE)

FRANKEL: Yes. But every TV show shows that, like, the baby's coming out. You have no idea. We didn't pack a bag for the water breaking. It was, like, you know, We're going. It's happening. So it's, like, most women are going through what I'm going through on some level. Most women have -- forget half the stuff in a car when they go on a road trip. And most women's husbands -- most women's husbands fart, and you're, like, Why are you doing this?

(END VIDEOTAPE)

(LAUGHTER)

JERAS: My goodness!

WHITFIELD: This is what I was afraid of!

JERAS: That you were going to lose -- lose it.

WHITFIELD: Oh, my gosh!

JERAS: But it's true. We all have kind of crazy lives. There's no picture perfect.

WHITFIELD: Yes!

JERAS: So I'll look forward to hearing more of that interview next weekend. Can you read our next story? She can't do it! All right. Well, next -- no, we already did that one.

WHITFIELD: Oh, my goodness!

JERAS: So that's the wrong story in the prompter, so I can't really read...

WHITFIELD: She's so funny!

(LAUGHTER)

WHITFIELD: We've got a lot straight ahead!

JERAS: All right.

(LAUGHTER)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

WHITFIELD: All right, let's talk some college hoops now, three quarters of the way to the Final Four. And Butler is headed to Houston. The Bulldogs defeated Florida 74 to 71 in overtime yesterday for a second consecutive Final Four appearance. All right, take a look at these fans in Indianapolis welcoming the Bulldogs home. Also headed to the Final Four, the UConn Huskies. They beat Arizona 65 to 63 in Saturday's west regional final. And VCU just beat Kansas 71 to 61. Later today, Kentucky and North Carolina battle for the last Final Four slot.

The NCAA March Madness continues. Be sure to watch all of the games live on our sister networks TNT and TBS, as well as NCAA.com.

All right. Time to go cross-country now for a look at some of the stories our affiliates are covering. Two weeks after this fatal tour bus crash in the Bronx, 11 bus drivers in the New York City area are under arrest. They are accused of using false identification to get their driver's licenses. The crash, which killed 15 people, led to the crackdown. Police say the bus driver involved in the crash made false statements on his license application.

Reports from Miami say the big fire several days ago at Miami International Airport will cause flight delays and cancellations for some time. The fire was at a fuel depot. Authorities say it will take months to repair the damage.

And crews in Stuart, Florida, have contained a brushfire that broke out this weekend. The flames have caused some property damage at a mobile home park. No injuries were reported.

Wal-Mart wants the U.S. Supreme Court to block a discrimination lawsuit from becoming a potentially record-breaking billion-dollar class action case. Here's CNN's Kate Bolduan.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

CHRIS KWAPNOSKI, FILING LAWSUIT AGAINST WAL-MART: I'm just one little fish in a great, big pond.

KATE BOLDUAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It started with six strangers in California. Chris Kwapnoski is one of them.

KWAPNOSKI: I'm a fighter, if nothing else. And so are all the other women that are involved.

BOLDUAN: Kwapnoski has worked at the Sam's Club, part of the Wal-Mart brand, for more than two decades. She says she has been paid less than her male counterparts and passed over for promotions for years.

KWAPNOSKI: They kept hiring men off the street, men who never had even a day's worth of Sam's Clubs experience were coming in, and I was the one training them. I always outworked them, always outlasted them.

BOLDUAN: So Kwapnoski and five other women who worked at Wal-Mart are suing the company in a high-stakes gender discrimination case seeking back pay and punitive damages.

(on camera): Someone says it's just one bad supervisor or it's a couple bad supervisors. Is it worth taking this -- taking the entire company on?

KWAPNOSKI: It's just not one supervisor. It's supervisor after supervisor after supervisor. I mean, one leaves, another one comes in to take their place with the pretty much same mentality.

BOLDUAN (voice-over): A case that started small is now so much more, a class action lawsuit against the mega-retailer employing 1.4 million people in the U.S.

(on camera): The lawsuit began here at this Wal-Mart in Pittsburg, California, a decade ago. Now the original six women in this case could expand to nearly every female Wal-Mart employee past and present, some 1.5 million women, making this the largest job discrimination case in U.S. history.

(voice-over): Wal-Mart is fighting back, arguing these allegations are isolated, that there's no so-called corporate culture or nationwide pattern of gender bias at their 4,300 facilities.

THEODORE BOUTROUS, ATTORNEY FOR WAL-MART: I think Wal-Mart has a very strong policy against discrimination and in favor of diversity. And it -- and it works hard to instill that throughout the company, throughout the stores.

GISEL RUIZ, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, WAL-MART: Our company culture is about providing all associates opportunities to advance and grow.

BOLDUAN: And they've launched a national PR campaign to show that.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: At Wal-Mart, we're thinking big about diversity and inclusion.

BOLDUAN: The Supreme Court, though, isn't weighing in on whether the women's discrimination claims are valid. Rather, it's deciding the more technical yet closely watched question -- Can they file as a class, or do they have to fight Wal-Mart individually?

KWAPNOSKI: It's just Wal-Mart's way of trying to stalemate us. They know we're right, and they just -- they don't want to admit it.

BOLDUAN (on camera): What the Justices decide could reach far beyond Wal-Mart to companies big and small, some in the business community fearing the outcome could open them up to a flood of frivolous lawsuits costing jobs and hurting the economy. We expect a ruling by the end of June. Kate Bolduan, CNN, at the Supreme Court.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

WHITFIELD: Intolerance can some in many forms. Ever since 9/11, fear about radical Islam has increased around the country. Plans for a mosque project in Tennessee triggered an uproar. As part of her special, "Unwelcome: The Muslims Next Door," our Soledad O'Brien talks to the leader of the mosque protest.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

KEVIN FISHER, PLAINTIFF IN LAWSUIT AGAINST RUTHERFORD CO.: We as citizens, we have families and we have children in this community, and we try to look out for our future.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We thank you for your love! We thank you for your joy!

SOLEDAD O'BRIEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Kevin Fisher has lived in Murfreesboro for 20 years. He's a corrections officer and a single father. Last May, Kevin was stunned to discover local officials had approved plans for 53,000-square-foot Islamic center in his hometown.

FISHER: Neighbors were outraged that something of this nature was being basically shoved down our throats and we didn't know anything about it.

O'BRIEN: A month later, the typically sleepy county commission meeting was anything but. So many people turned up for the public hearing, authorities wouldn't let them all in.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm very happy to see this many people here that are really standing up.

O'BRIEN: A few residents complained about the lack of notice of the mosque plan.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I would respectfully ask for an expanded public hearing again.

O'BRIEN: Virtually everyone else spoke out against the threat of Islam.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Everybody knows who's trying to kill us, and it's like we can't say it!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And I would encourage the boycott of any contractor associated with the project.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Our country was founded through the Founding Fathers, through the true God the father and Jesus Christ.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm sorry, but they seem to be against everything that I believe in. And so I don't want them necessarily in my neighborhood. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That concludes our public comment period. Thank you very much.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

WHITFIELD: CNN's Soledad O'Brien chronicles the dramatic fight over construction of a mosque in the heart of a Bible Belt. "Unwelcome: The Muslims Next Door" airs tonight at 8:00 o'clock Eastern time.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

WHITFIELD: Time for a "CNN Equals Politics" update. We're keeping an eye on all the latest headlines at the CNNPolitics.com desk, and here's what's crossing right now. Members of Congress returned to Capitol Hill this week after taking a week off in their home states. Topping their agenda, hammering out a budget to keep the government running. Current federal funding runs out in less than two weeks.

Congresswoman Michele Bachmann is dropping more hints about running for president. The Minnesota Republican is in the process of forming a presidential exploratory committee, and at a conservative conference in Iowa this weekend, she sounded like a candidate.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

REP. MICHELE BACHMANN (R), MINNESOTA: America has decided they're in for 2012! And so that's my question to you today here in Iowa. Are you in? Are you in for 2012? Are you in?

(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)

BACHMANN: Are you going to make it happen? Are we going to take our country back? I agree with you! I say we do! I'm in! You're in! We will take this back in 2012!

(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WHITFIELD: President Barack Obama, meantime, outlines his strategy in Libya tomorrow night at the National Defense University in Washington. You can watch it here live. CNN coverage begins at 7:00 o'clock Eastern time.

And for the latest political news, you know exactly where to go, CNNPolitics.com.

All right. The Sunday news shows talked politics, but they also spent a good deal of time on Libya, Gadhafi and the role the U.S. will be playing in enforcing the no-fly zone. Here's what they were saying on the Sunday talk shows.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BOB SCHIEFFER, HOST, CBS "FACE THE NATION": NATO is going to take over the operations there, but it does not call for regime change. And the president has said that Mr. Gadhafi has to go. That seems a bit contradictory.

ROBERT GATES, DEFENSE SECRETARY: I don't think so. I think what you're seeing is the difference between a military mission and a policy objective. The military mission is very limited and restricted to the establishment of the no-fly zone and for humanitarian purposes, to prevent Gadhafi from being able to use his armed forces to slaughter his own people.

HILLARY CLINTON, SECRETARY OF STATE: We have sent a clear message that it is time for him to transition out of power. We believe that Libya will have a better shot in the future if he departs and leaves power.

DAVID GREGORY, HOST, NBC "MEET THE PRESS": Bottom line, the president wants him to go, but the president will not take him out himself.

GATES: Certainly not militarily.

CANDY CROWLEY, HOST, CNN "STATE OF THE NATION": Do you have any doubt that the minute those planes stop enforcing a no-fly zone, he will be back with his troops going after the rebels?

SEN. CARL LEVIN (D), MICHIGAN: The people of Libya can remove their dictator. But we are not going to be the ones to remove him. We are the ones, as part of an international coalition, that are going to prevent him from massacring his own people.

SEN. JOHN MCCAIN (R), ARIZONA: Gadhafi should be either with Hugo Chavez, with Hitler and Stalin or in the international criminal court, and we should take actions to make sure that happens over time.

JAKE TAPPER, HOST, ABC "THIS WEEK": Do you think Libya posed an actual or imminent threat to the United States?

GATES: No. No. It was not -- it was not a vital national interest to the United States, but it was an interest.

SEN. RICHARD LUGAR (R), INDIANA: Well, I was startled to hear Secretary Gates say that Libya was not of vital interest. Before our nation goes to war or has military action, there must be a plan. There must be objectives, the end game, what we want to achieve, and then at least some means as to how that's going to occur. That has not happened as yet.

CLINTON: I think it's perfectly legitimate for members of Congress and the public to ask questions. The president's going to address the nation Monday night. A lot of these questions will be answered.

SCHIEFFER: There are some people in the Pentagon quoted in various newspapers as saying this no-fly zone may last for three months or so. How long do you think this is going to be in place?

GATES: I don't think anybody has any idea.

(END VIDEO CLIP) WHITFIELD: All right. Here's something worth talking about. What if you could take a picture with your Smartphone and it instantly downloads the photo to other smart phones around you? Well, it's about to happen.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

WHITFIELD: Remember the Polaroid camera and then the disposal camera? Well, get ready for instant picture-sharing with your Smartphone. Here's CNN's Dan Simon.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

DAN SIMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We're in Palo Alto, California, the heart of Silicon Valley. For the last six months, a team of engineers has been developing a secret app, so secret that they put paper on the windows to block public view. Well, now it's being released to the world, and if you believe what they're saying, this application will be as revolutionary as both Facebook and Twitter.

(voice-over): Bill Nguyen is the founder and CEO of Color, a Smartphone app that got some Silicon Valley investors so excited that they wrote some very large checks even before seeing a real product.

BILL NGUYEN, COLOR: We were given $41 million to start our company. It's one of the largest fundings ever for a private software company.

SIMON: What does Color do? It's a new kind of social network, not necessarily for people you know but for people you don't know. It allows users of iPhones and Android devices to instantly share their photos, videos and texts with literally everyone around them.

NGUYEN: We call this multi-lens technology. So we describe it as similar to, like, going to a wedding where you have all these disposable cameras laid out everywhere, and you take pictures and it's great because you share a moment together. Well, we've done that, except with iPhones. So every camera that takes a picture around you within 150 feet is going to be instantly in your application. You didn't have to upload it, you didn't have to download it, you didn't have to share, you didn't friend anyone. It just happens.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: In this view, I can see photos and videos being taken by all people using Color on their Smartphone nearby me.

SIMON: And you can keep the pictures forever. If that sounds a bit creepy to you and an invasion of privacy, Nguyen says don't use the app. But he sees it as the next generation of social networking, all on the phone in a post-PC world. The app is free. Nguyen hopes to monetize in a few months through advertising.

(on camera): How do you convince somebody that they should be using this?

NGUYEN: Right. So let's go back to just the basic premise of capturing information. I think today, when I capture pictures with my camera, it's just my single perspective. So we think that by using this application, it's going to be really fun.

SIMON (voice-over): Nguyen's intuition of what users will like has served him well. His last company, a music streaming service, was bought by Apple for a reported $80 million. Before that, he got more than 10 times that amount, $850 million, for a Web messaging service. Not bad for a college dropout with no formal background in computers. He thinks his newest company has the potential to overshadow his other successes, but he admits there's a bit of an unknown.

NGUYEN: It's a very different audience and a very different goal, and we'll see what happens.

SIMON: Whatever happens, with millions in investment, Color has a lot of smart people counting on it to be a hit. Dan Simon, CNN, Palo Alto, California.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

WHITFIELD: All right. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. Thanks for being with me this afternoon. Don Lemon's coming up next with more of the NEWSROOM after this.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

DON LEMON, CNN ANCHOR: Right now on CNN, breaking news on the whereabouts of this woman hustled away by Libyan security officials. We're live from where the confrontation happened in just moments.

Plus, look at these new pictures just in to CNN showing the awesome force of the Japan tsunami.

And look at this, as well.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

FRAN TARKENTON, BUSINESSMAN AND INVESTOR: Owners and players, get rid of the anger. Get rid of the ego. Get rid of the lawyers. Take the lawyers out of the room!

(END VIDEO CLIP)

LEMON: That's NFL Hall of Fame quarterback Fran Tarkenton giving his take on the pro football stalemate. He'll join us here live in just a few minutes.

Content and programming copyright 2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP.    ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.    This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.      

Document NWSRM00020110328e73r0002t



Supreme Court to review super-sized sex    discrimination  suit against world's largest retailer

BY MARK SHERMAN      
AP      
1,023 words
27 March 2011
03:55 PM
The Canadian Press
CPR
English
(c) 2011 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved.      

WASHINGTON _ Christine Kwapnoski hasn't done too badly in nearly 25 years in the Wal-Mart family, making more than $60,000 a year in a job she enjoys most days.

But Kwapnoski says she faced obstacles at Wal-Mart-owned Sam's Club stores in both Missouri and California: Men making more than women and getting promoted faster.

She never heard a supervisor tell a man, as she says one told her, to ``doll up'' or ``blow the cobwebs off'' her make-up.

Once she got over the fear that she might be fired, she joined what has turned into the largest job discrimination lawsuit ever.

The 46-year-old single mother of two is one of the named plaintiffs in a suit that will be argued at the Supreme Court on Tuesday. At stake is whether the suit can go forward as a class action that could involve 500,000 to 1.6 million women, according to varying estimates, and potentially could cost the world's largest retailer billions of dollars.

But the case's potential importance goes well beyond the Wal-Mart dispute, as evidenced by more than two dozen briefs filed by business interests on Wal-Mart's side, and civil rights, consumer and union groups on the other.

The question is crucial to the viability of discrimination claims, which become powerful vehicles to force change when they are presented together, instead of individually. Class actions increase pressure on businesses to settle suits because of the cost of defending them and the potential for very large judgments.

Columbia University law professor John Coffee said that the high court could bring a virtual end to employment discrimination class actions filed under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, depending on how it decides the Wal-Mart case.

``Litigation brought by individuals under Title VII is just too costly,'' Coffee said. ``It's either class action or nothing.''

Illustrating the value of class actions, Brad Seligman, the California-based lawyer who conceived of and filed the suit 10 years ago, said the average salary for a woman at Wal-Mart was $13,000, about $1,100 less than the average for a man, when the case began. ``That's hugely significant if you're making $13,000 a year, but not enough to hire a lawyer and bring a case.''

The company has fought the suit every step of the way, Seligman said, because it is the ``biggest litigation threat Wal-Mart has ever faced.''

A trial judge and the federal appeals court in San Francisco, over a fierce dissent, said the suit could go forward.

But Wal-Mart wants the high court to stop the suit in its tracks. The company argues it includes too many women with too many different positions in its 3,400 stores across the country. Wal-Mart says its policies prohibit discrimination and that most management decisions are made at the store and regional levels, not at its Bentonville, Arkansas, headquarters.

Theodore J. Boutrous, Wal-Mart's California-based lawyer, said there is no evidence that women are poorly treated at Wal-Mart. ``The evidence is the contrary of that,'' Boutrous said.

The company is not conceding that any woman has faced discrimination, but says that if any allegations are proven, they are isolated. ``People will make errors,'' said Gisel Ruiz, Wal-Mart's executive vice-president for people, as the company calls its human resources unit. ``People are people.''

Ruiz paints a very different picture of the opportunities offered women at Wal-Mart. She joined the company straight from college in 1992. ``In less than four years, I went from an assistant manager trainee to running my own store,'' she said. ``I'm one of thousands of women who have had a positive experience at Wal-Mart.''

Kwapnoski, who works at the Sam's Club in Concord, California, is one of two women who continue to work at Wal-Mart while playing a prominent role in the suit. The other is Betty Dukes, a greeter at the Walmart in Pittsburg, California.

``It's very hard for anyone to understand how difficult that is and what courage that is,'' Seligman said of Kwapnoski and Dukes. ``They're Public Enemy No. 1 at Wal-Mart and they are known for their involvement in this lawsuit. Nevertheless, they get and up and go to work every day.''

Kwapnoski didn't want to discuss any issues she faces at work as a result of the suit.

She said she has seen some changes at Wal-Mart since the suit was filed in 2001. The company now posts all its openings electronically. ``It does give people a better idea of what's out there, but they still can be very easily passed over.'' she said. ``But before you didn't even know the position was open.''

The suit, citing what are now dated figures from 2001, contends that women are grossly underrepresented among managers, holding just 14 per cent of store manager positions compared with more than 80 per cent of lower-ranking supervisory jobs that are paid by the hour. Wal-Mart responds that women in its retail stores made up two-thirds of all employees and two-thirds of all managers in 2001.

Kwapnoski said she and a lot of women were promoted into management just after the suit was filed, although she has had only a couple of pay increases in the nine years since. She is the assistant manager in her store's groceries and produce sections.

Now, she said, promotions are back to the way they were before, favouring men over women.

She said she's hoping the long-running court fight will force Wal-Mart to recognize that, stories like Ruiz's aside, women are not valued as much as men are and that her bosses will begin to ``make sure that good men and good women are being promoted, not just men.''

Online:

Briefs in the case: http://tinyurl.com/4ckzfz5

20110327CPCPB8132      

Document CPR0000020110328e73r00031

Women take case against Wal-Mart to highest court

Joan Biskupic      
Joan Biskupic, USA TODAY      
1,453 words
27 March 2011
Gannett News Service
GNS
English
© 2011 Gannett News Service. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.      

Company accused of demeaning and denying female employees

By Joan Biskupic, USA TODAY

WASHINGTON - The women from Wal-Mart have told their stories of discrimination many times in the past decade. They have described how male workers with less seniority were promoted and paid more. They have talked of a culture of female stereotyping, of being called "Janie Qs" and told to wear cosmetics and "doll up."

Now their most important audience to date will be listening. Tuesday, the Supreme Court will hear arguments in their gigantic class-action lawsuit against the nation's largest private employer. They are newly energized in making sure their voices are heard as they contend women nationwide were denied promotions and better pay in a highly centralized corporate culture rife with stereotypes that demean women.

"With Wal-Mart being as big as they are, they could easily sweep us under the rug," says Christine Kwapnoski, one of six named plaintiffs behind what would be the largest employment class-action case in history - if the court allows them to proceed as a group.

"I like that we get this jump-started every time" the case moves to a new court, says Kwapnoski, 46, who works in a Concord, Calif., Sam's Club, a Wal-Mart subsidiary.

Lawyer Theodore Boutrous, who will argue the case for Wal-Mart, counters that the women's experiences do not reflect those of most females at Wal-Mart. He says the named plaintiffs cannot represent potentially millions of women in thousands of different stores supervised by tens of thousands of different managers. Boutrous refers to a "kaleidoscope of claims, defenses, issues, locales, events and individuals" that he will tell the justices simply cannot be folded into a single class-action case.

Class-action suits enable one or more persons to sue as representatives of a group with similar interests. For workers with relatively small wage losses or little ability to come forward on their own, such a lawsuit provides a way to challenge a big company.

Corporations such as Wal-Mart emphasize that class-actions and the potential for billion-dollar judgments are limited by rules governing who can join together. Wal-Mart and its corporate supporters say the class in this case is too disparate and lacks common grievances. Some of the nation's largest businesses, including Del Monte Foods and General Electric, and the most prominent civil rights organizations, including the NAACP and National Women's Law Center, have lined up on opposite sides of a case that has become one of the most watched of the term.

The question at this point is not whether Wal-Martdiscriminated against the women, but whether this group of female workers should ever have been certified to bring a class-action lawsuit. Lower U.S. appeals courts have used varying standards for class certification, and high-court resolution of the Wal-Mart battle could clarify the national ground rules for workers or consumers who try to challenge practices at big companies.

In addition, the case tests the Supreme Court's pro-business bent. "Powerful companies such as Wal-Mart have consistently enjoyed a home field advantage" at the court under Chief Justice John Roberts, asserts the liberal Alliance for Justice in a new report stressing the stakes in the Wal-Mart dispute for women who have traditionally earned less than men.

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which has filed a brief siding with Wal-Mart, warns that if this class action is allowed, the precedent "would bury American businesses in abusive class-action lawsuits to the detriment of consumers, the U.S. economy and the judicial system itself."

Roots in Civil Rights Act

The Wal-Mart lawsuit traces to 2001, when the Berkeley, Calif.- based Impact Fund and other civil rights lawyers filed the class action based on Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which forbids discrimination on the job.

They alleged that women were paid less than men in comparable positions, even though the women got better performance reviews and had more seniority. They cited statistics about low rank and pay of Wal-Mart female workers nationwide and they provided anecdotal stories.

Lead attorneys for the women - Brad Seligman of the Impact Fund and Joseph Sellers, a longtime civil rights lawyer who will argue before the justices - highlight on the first page of their brief that Wal-Mart executives referred to women as "Janie Qs" and approved of holding business meetings at Hooters restaurants, where the waitresses wear tight, skimpy clothing.

They tie their case to statistical data, including this powerful assertion: "While women comprise over 80 percent of hourly supervisors, they hold only one-third of store management jobs and their ranks steadily diminish at each successive step in the management hierarchy."

They say statistics show that women's pay lags that of men in every major job in each of the company's 41 regions. (Wal-Mart officials dispute those statistics and say women in 2001, when the case was brought, were far more represented in management than the plaintiffs claim.)

Kwapnoski, who has worked at Wal-Mart subsidiary Sam's Clubs since 1986 in Missouri and California, says women rarely were alerted to opportunities for training or advancement. She said a boss told her a male co-worker received a large raise because he had a family to support. This was while Kwapnoski, a divorcee, was raising two small children on her own.

She said she decided to join the challenge to the company when she realized "I was training men to take the positions I had asked about." In 2000, after 14 years on the job, she said she was paid about the same as a man with half her tenure.

The following year, in 2001, when she began working on a dock that received shipments, the boss "told me to 'doll up,' to wear some makeup and to dress a little better."

Betty Dukes, a greeter in a Pittsburg, Calif., Walmart, whose name leads the group of plaintiffs in Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes, has complained about a dearth of information for workers on training and promotion opportunities. She said she became frustrated by constantly seeing positions filled without ever being posted. Wal- Mart lawyers say in court documents that such stories are not the common experience of female workers and that the company's anti- discrimination policy "is clear and taken extremely seriously."

Gisel Ruiz, in charge of Wal-Mart human resources, said bosses who show bias are subject to sanction or firing.

Lawyer Boutrous said the anecdotes related by Kwapnoski and the others fail to demonstrate any systematic bias. Workers alleging discrimination in a class action, he says, "bear the burden of showing both individual instances of actionable discrimination and a companywide pattern or practice of discrimination." There are about 3,400 Wal-Mart stores nationwide. He says statistics from the women's lawyers are based on alleged ad hoc discrimination by local managers and wrongly extended to a national picture. And he insists more than 90 percent of stores have no statistically significant pay rate differences between men and women.

Policies and practices

In 2004, a U.S. district judge certified a class covering all women who worked for Wal-Mart after Dec. 26, 1998. He said the lead women had shown disparities in pay and promotions arising from policies that the women alleged had discriminated in a common way. The 9th Circuit upheld that decision on a 6-5 vote.

The appeals court dissenters said the plaintiffs should not have won certification without "significant proof that an employer operated under a general policy of discrimination." (The majority had said a showing of a common policy alleged, not proven, to be discriminatory was sufficient.)

The appeals court estimated the class at 500,000 workers; Wal- Mart says it could sweep in 1.5 million employees.

Ruiz, who holds the title of executive vice president of people for Wal-Mart, began working for the company in 1992. She says the district court judge's certification order is so sweeping it would include her - even though her experience is completely at odds with the women who've brought the case.

Asked about the demeaning comments documented in the women's filings, along with the Hooters meetings, Ruiz noted that the company has 1.4 million employees and that some bosses may have gone astray.

Of the claim of management meetings at Hooters, Boutrous said, "That would be insane if that was the policy of the company."

--

Copyright 2011, USA TODAY International. Dist. by Tribune Media Services International.

Document GNS0000020110329e73r00019

Women take case against Wal-Mart to highest court

Joan Biskupic      
Joan Biskupic, USA TODAY      
1,442 words
27 March 2011
Gannett News Service
GNS
English
© 2011 Gannett News Service. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.      

Company accused of demeaning and denying female employees

By Joan Biskupic, USA TODAY

WASHINGTON - The women from Wal-Mart have told their stories of discrimination many times in the past decade. They have described how male workers with less seniority were promoted and paid more. They have talked of a culture of female stereotyping, of being called "Janie Qs" and told to wear cosmetics and "doll up."

Now their most important audience to date will be listening. Tuesday, the Supreme Court will hear arguments in their gigantic class-action lawsuit against the nation's largest private employer. They are newly energized in making sure their voices are heard as they contend women nationwide were denied promotions and better pay in a highly centralized corporate culture rife with stereotypes that demean women.

"With Wal-Mart being as big as they are, they could easily sweep us under the rug," says Christine Kwapnoski, one of six named plaintiffs behind what would be the largest employment class-action case in history - if the court allows them to proceed as a group.

"I like that we get this jump-started every time" the case moves to a new court, says Kwapnoski, 46, who works in a Concord, Calif., Sam's Club, a Wal-Mart subsidiary.

Lawyer Theodore Boutrous, who will argue the case for Wal-Mart, counters that the women's experiences do not reflect those of most females at Wal-Mart. He says the named plaintiffs cannot represent potentially millions of women in thousands of different stores supervised by tens of thousands of different managers. Boutrous refers to a "kaleidoscope of claims, defenses, issues, locales, events and individuals" that he will tell the justices simply cannot be folded into a single class-action case.

Class-action suits enable one or more persons to sue as representatives of a group with similar interests. For workers with relatively small wage losses or little ability to come forward on their own, such a lawsuit provides a way to challenge a big company.

Corporations such as Wal-Mart emphasize that class-actions and the potential for billion-dollar judgments are limited by rules governing who can join together. Wal-Mart and its corporate supporters say the class in this case is too disparate and lacks common grievances. Some of the nation's largest businesses, including Del Monte Foods and General Electric, and the most prominent civil rights organizations, including the NAACP and National Women's Law Center, have lined up on opposite sides of a case that has become one of the most watched of the term.

The question at this point is not whether Wal-Martdiscriminated against the women, but whether this group of female workers should ever have been certified to bring a class-action lawsuit. Lower U.S. appeals courts have used varying standards for class certification, and high-court resolution of the Wal-Mart battle could clarify the national ground rules for workers or consumers who try to challenge practices at big companies.

In addition, the case tests the Supreme Court's pro-business bent. "Powerful companies such as Wal-Mart have consistently enjoyed a home field advantage" at the court under Chief Justice John Roberts, asserts the liberal Alliance for Justice in a new report stressing the stakes in the Wal-Mart dispute for women who have traditionally earned less than men.

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which has filed a brief siding with Wal-Mart, warns that if this class action is allowed, the precedent "would bury American businesses in abusive class-action lawsuits to the detriment of consumers, the U.S. economy and the judicial system itself."

Roots in Civil Rights Act

The Wal-Mart lawsuit traces to 2001, when the Berkeley, Calif.- based Impact Fund and other civil rights lawyers filed the class action based on Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which forbids discrimination on the job.

They alleged that women were paid less than men in comparable positions, even though the women got better performance reviews and had more seniority. They cited statistics about low rank and pay of Wal-Mart female workers nationwide and they provided anecdotal stories.

Lead attorneys for the women - Brad Seligman of the Impact Fund and Joseph Sellers, a longtime civil rights lawyer who will argue before the justices - highlight on the first page of their brief that Wal-Mart executives referred to women as "Janie Qs" and approved of holding business meetings at Hooters restaurants, where the waitresses wear tight, skimpy clothing.

They tie their case to statistical data, including this powerful assertion: "While women comprise over 80 percent of hourly supervisors, they hold only one-third of store management jobs and their ranks steadily diminish at each successive step in the management hierarchy."

They say statistics show that women's pay lags that of men in every major job in each of the company's 41 regions. (Wal-Mart officials dispute those statistics and say women in 2001, when the case was brought, were far more represented in management than the plaintiffs claim.)

Kwapnoski, who has worked at Wal-Mart subsidiary Sam's Clubs since 1986 in Missouri and California, says women rarely were alerted to opportunities for training or advancement. She said a boss told her a male co-worker received a large raise because he had a family to support. This was while Kwapnoski, a divorcee, was raising two small children on her own.

She said she decided to join the challenge to the company when she realized "I was training men to take the positions I had asked about." In 2000, after 14 years on the job, she said she was paid about the same as a man with half her tenure.

The following year, in 2001, when she began working on a dock that received shipments, the boss "told me to 'doll up,' to wear some makeup and to dress a little better."

Betty Dukes, a greeter in a Pittsburg, Calif., Walmart, whose name leads the group of plaintiffs in Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes, has complained about a dearth of information for workers on training and promotion opportunities. She said she became frustrated by constantly seeing positions filled without ever being posted. Wal- Mart lawyers say in court documents that such stories are not the common experience of female workers and that the company's anti- discrimination policy "is clear and taken extremely seriously."

Gisel Ruiz, in charge of Wal-Mart human resources, said bosses who show bias are subject to sanction or firing.

Lawyer Boutrous said the anecdotes related by Kwapnoski and the others fail to demonstrate any systematic bias. Workers alleging discrimination in a class action, he says, "bear the burden of showing both individual instances of actionable discrimination and a companywide pattern or practice of discrimination." There are about 3,400 Wal-Mart stores nationwide. He says statistics from the women's lawyers are based on alleged ad hoc discrimination by local managers and wrongly extended to a national picture. And he insists more than 90 percent of stores have no statistically significant pay rate differences between men and women.

Policies and practices

In 2004, a U.S. district judge certified a class covering all women who worked for Wal-Mart after Dec. 26, 1998. He said the lead women had shown disparities in pay and promotions arising from policies that the women alleged had discriminated in a common way. The 9th Circuit upheld that decision on a 6-5 vote.

The appeals court dissenters said the plaintiffs should not have won certification without "significant proof that an employer operated under a general policy of discrimination." (The majority had said a showing of a common policy alleged, not proven, to be discriminatory was sufficient.)

The appeals court estimated the class at 500,000 workers; Wal- Mart says it could sweep in 1.5 million employees.

Ruiz, who holds the title of executive vice president of people for Wal-Mart, began working for the company in 1992. She says the district court judge's certification order is so sweeping it would include her - even though her experience is completely at odds with the women who've brought the case.

Asked about the demeaning comments documented in the women's filings, along with the Hooters meetings, Ruiz noted that the company has 1.4 million employees and that some bosses may have gone astray.

Of the claim of management meetings at Hooters, Boutrous said, "That would be insane if that was the policy of the company."

Document GNS0000020110329e73r0000t



 Wal-Mart case could shape how big one suit can get

David G. Savage                    Tribune Washington Bureau    
1,007 words
27 March 2011
Charleston Gazette
CGAZ
P7A
English
(Copyright 2011)    

BERKELEY, Calif. - Brad Seligman is a determined civil rights lawyer with a small office and a powerful idea for turning a single lawsuit into a nationwide class action claim against America's largest employer.

Armed with stories from several women who said they were passed over for promotions at Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Seligman is at the helm of what could be the largest job-discrimination case in U.S. history, affecting as many as 2 million women and putting at risk tens of billions of dollars of the company's money.

This U.S. Supreme Court case, a decade in the making, has been described as the battle of Berkeley versus Bentonville, in which crusading liberal lawyers take on the conservative, male-dominated culture of the Arkansas-based retail giant.

The court's ruling could be the most far-reaching decision on job bias in more than a decade, according to experts on both sides.

A win for Seligman's clients could open the door for the broader use of statistics to prove job discrimination - and not just on behalf of women, but also for minorities or persons with disabilities.

However, a win for Wal-Mart could deal a death blow to nationwide job-bias suits by ruling that employees who work in different stores and hold different jobs do not have enough in common to be a class.

U.S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals Chief Judge Alex Kozinski, in a dissent to a ruling for the workers last year, said the million-plus women who have worked at Wal-Mart "have little in common but their sex and this lawsuit."

But proving a single worker was a victim of illegal discrimination is slow, hard and costly. In its defense, the employer can often point to good reasons for promoting one person over another.

In a class action, by contrast, the numbers can speak for themselves - and they do so loudly.

Given a computer and a court order, a statistician can paint a damning portrait of a company.

"To prove these cases, you rely on statistics. And now all the records are electronic. It's all there at a keystroke," said Seligman, who works in a tiny office in the Berkeley marina with one other senior lawyer.

A statistician hired by Seligman found that at Wal-Mart, women make up about two-thirds of the hourly employees but less than 14 percent of store managers. And in nearly every job category, women earned less than men, even though they had, on average, more seniority.

"Women are treated as second-class employees at Walmarts from Florida to Alaska," Seligman said.

But Wal-Mart's lawyers sharply dispute the statistics cited by Seligman.

They said there is no pay difference between men and women at 90 percent of stores. And decisions about who is hired or promoted are made locally, they said, not because of a companywide policy.

Los Angeles lawyer Theodore J. Boutrous Jr., who represents Wal-Mart, said Seligman is trying to create a new theory of class actions based on "structural discrimination."

He said Seligman cannot prove that the female plaintiffs suffered true discrimination, but he nonetheless hopes to win back pay for a million women by claiming that Wal-Mart's "corporate culture" fostered companywide discrimination.

"They went way too far," Boutrous said.

Rather than rebut the statistics before a jury, the company has fought fiercely to defeat class action status for the suit before the case can go to trial. So far, Seligman has been winning - but only before judges in San Francisco.

In 2004, a federal district judge there ruled the suit could proceed as a class action.

The often liberal-leaning 9th Circuit agreed by a 2-1 vote in 2007 and again in a 6-5 decision last April.

But the more conservative U.S. Supreme Court, which has mostly frowned upon sprawling lawsuits against companies, will hear Wal-Mart's appeal Tuesday. And legal experts said the home-court advantage has shifted in the company's favor.

"The court's majority has been hostile to class actions," Stanford Law professor Deborah Hensler said.

For the first time in its history, however, the high court will have three women on the bench for a major sex discrimination case.

They include Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who began her career as a women's rights advocate.

In 1966, just two years after the Civil Rights Act outlawed job discrimination, the federal rules of civil procedure were changed to permit one person to sue on behalf of a class of persons with the same basic claim.

The 1970s saw a series of class-action suits brought on behalf of blacks and Latinos who were largely shut out of higher-paying jobs.

But in the 1980s, the Supreme Court tightened the rules. It said judges should conduct a "rigorous analysis" before approving a class-based claim of job discrimination. The opinion cast doubt on the idea that the experience of one employee can be truly typical of the experience of hundreds or thousands of others.

The case of Wal-Mart vs. Dukes could be said to have begun in 1994 when Betty Dukes began work as a cashier at a store in Pittsburg, Calif., where she clashed with a female supervisor.

After several years, she complained she had been denied opportunities to advance, despite good performance reviews.

When Seligman launched his suit in 2001, he named Dukes as the lead plaintiff.

As such, she became a representative for all of the women who worked for the retailer since then.

In recent years, she has worked as a "greeter" at the Pittsburg store while the suit slowly worked its way up through the courts.

The company's lawyers point out the suit now speaks for more women than the combined total of active-duty personnel in the U.S. Army, Air Force, Marines, Navy and Coast Guard.

Document CGAZ000020110328e73r00043



Supreme Court to review super-sized sex    discrimination  suit against world's largest retailer

By MARK SHERMAN      
Associated Press      
1,023 words
27 March 2011
05:38 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2011.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

WASHINGTON (AP) - Christine Kwapnoski hasn't done too badly in nearly 25 years in the Wal-Mart family, making more than $60,000 a year in a job she enjoys most days.

But Kwapnoski says she faced obstacles at Wal-Mart-owned Sam's Club stores in both Missouri and California: Men making more than women and getting promoted faster.

She never heard a supervisor tell a man, as she says one told her, to "doll up" or "blow the cobwebs off" her make-up.

Once she got over the fear that she might be fired, she joined what has turned into the largest job discrimination lawsuit ever.

The 46-year-old single mother of two is one of the named plaintiffs in a suit that will be argued at the Supreme Court on Tuesday. At stake is whether the suit can go forward as a class action that could involve 500,000 to 1.6 million women, according to varying estimates, and potentially could cost the world's largest retailer billions of dollars.

But the case's potential importance goes well beyond the Wal-Mart dispute, as evidenced by more than two dozen briefs filed by business interests on Wal-Mart's side, and civil rights, consumer and union groups on the other.

The question is crucial to the viability of discrimination claims, which become powerful vehicles to force change when they are presented together, instead of individually. Class actions increase pressure on businesses to settle suits because of the cost of defending them and the potential for very large judgments.

Columbia University law professor John Coffee said that the high court could bring a virtual end to employment discrimination class actions filed under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, depending on how it decides the Wal-Mart case.

"Litigation brought by individuals under Title VII is just too costly," Coffee said. "It's either class action or nothing."

Illustrating the value of class actions, Brad Seligman, the California-based lawyer who conceived of and filed the suit 10 years ago, said the average salary for a woman at Wal-Mart was $13,000, about $1,100 less than the average for a man, when the case began. "That's hugely significant if you're making $13,000 a year, but not enough to hire a lawyer and bring a case."

The company has fought the suit every step of the way, Seligman said, because it is the "biggest litigation threat Wal-Mart has ever faced."

A trial judge and the federal appeals court in San Francisco, over a fierce dissent, said the suit could go forward.

But Wal-Mart wants the high court to stop the suit in its tracks. The company argues it includes too many women with too many different positions in its 3,400 stores across the country. Wal-Mart says its policies prohibit discrimination and that most management decisions are made at the store and regional levels, not at its Bentonville, Ark., headquarters.

Theodore J. Boutrous, Wal-Mart's California-based lawyer, said there is no evidence that women are poorly treated at Wal-Mart. "The evidence is the contrary of that," Boutrous said.

The company is not conceding that any woman has faced discrimination, but says that if any allegations are proven, they are isolated. "People will make errors," said Gisel Ruiz, Wal-Mart's executive vice president for people, as the company calls its human resources unit. "People are people."

Ruiz paints a very different picture of the opportunities offered women at Wal-Mart. She joined the company straight from college in 1992. "In less than four years, I went from an assistant manager trainee to running my own store," she said. "I'm one of thousands of women who have had a positive experience at Wal-Mart."

Kwapnoski, who works at the Sam's Club in Concord, Calif., is one of two women who continue to work at Wal-Mart while playing a prominent role in the suit. The other is Betty Dukes, a greeter at the Walmart in Pittsburg, Calif.

"It's very hard for anyone to understand how difficult that is and what courage that is," Seligman said of Kwapnoski and Dukes. "They're Public Enemy No. 1 at Wal-Mart and they are known for their involvement in this lawsuit. Nevertheless, they get and up and go to work every day."

Kwapnoski didn't want to discuss any issues she faces at work as a result of the suit.

She said she has seen some changes at Wal-Mart since the suit was filed in 2001. The company now posts all its openings electronically. "It does give people a better idea of what's out there, but they still can be very easily passed over." she said. "But before you didn't even know the position was open."

The suit, citing what are now dated figures from 2001, contends that women are grossly underrepresented among managers, holding just 14 percent of store manager positions compared with more than 80 percent of lower-ranking supervisory jobs that are paid by the hour. Wal-Mart responds that women in its retail stores made up two-thirds of all employees and two-thirds of all managers in 2001.

Kwapnoski said she and a lot of women were promoted into management just after the suit was filed, although she has had only a couple of pay increases in the nine years since. She is the assistant manager in her store's groceries and produce sections.

Now, she said, promotions are back to the way they were before, favoring men over women.

She said she's hoping the long-running court fight will force Wal-Mart to recognize that, stories like Ruiz's aside, women are not valued as much as men are and that her bosses will begin to "make sure that good men and good women are being promoted, not just men."

------

Online:

Briefs in the case: http://tinyurl.com/4ckzfz5

7      

Document APRS000020110327e73r0038u



THE AD CAMPAIGN
Metropolitan Desk; SECTA
A Soldier's Story

By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS      
392 words
26 March 2011
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
19
English
Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company.    All Rights Reserved.      

This 30-second television spot, titled ''From Soldier to Wal-Mart Store Manager,'' is part of Wal-Mart's campaign to open its first stores in New York City. The advertisement began appearing in the city in mid-February. Wal-Mart would not say how much it has spent on its New York advertising campaign.

PRODUCER: The Martin Agency.

ON THE SCREEN: The advertisement features an Iraq war veteran named Tracey Lloyd who works at a Wal-Mart store in Palm Coast, Fla. It begins with a close-up of Ms. Lloyd's Bronze Star for bravery, then flashes to Ms. Lloyd standing in a Wal-Mart. Pictures of her dressed in a West Point uniform and combat fatigues appear as she talks about having pride in her job. One shot shows a copy of her certificate for completing Wal-Mart's store management course.

THE SCRIPT: Receiving the Bronze Star, that was definitely one of my proudest moments. I graduated from West Point, then I did a tour of duty in Iraq. When I was transitioning from active duty, I went to a military officer hiring conference. It was kind of like speed dating. There were 12 companies that I was prematched with, but Wal-Mart turned out to be the best for me. Sam Walton was in the military and he understood the importance of developing your people. It's an honor to be in a position of leadership at Wal-Mart. I'm Capt. Tracey Lloyd, and I work at Wal-Mart.

ACCURACY: The advertisement does not make any clear-cut factual arguments except to assert that Wal-Mart is one of the top employers of veterans, something the Department of Veterans Affairs says it does not track, but is a reasonable claim given that the retailer is the country's largest private employer.

SCORECARD: In this advertisement, Wal-Mart tackles two long-standing claims made by critics: that it does not offer its employees a career path and that it discriminates against women. Captain Lloyd addresses these concerns without ever mentioning them. She is a young woman who says she is happy at Wal-Mart. As a veteran, she is a member of a group most Americans respect and trust.

ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

PHOTO

Document NYTF000020110326e73q0004a



Working
Walmart in rights fight

James Vicini      
Reuters      
479 words
26 March 2011
Vancouver Sun
VNCS
Final
G10
English
Copyright © 2011 Vancouver Sun      

Wal-Mart Stores Inc will urge the U.S. Supreme Court next week to reject the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history, brought by female employees who seek billion of dollars.

The top U.S. court hears arguments Tuesday in a lawsuit against the world's largest retailer for allegedly giving women less pay and fewer promotions at 3,400 U.S. stores since late 1998.

Lawyers for the two sides will spar over whether the small group of women who began the lawsuit 10 years ago can represent a huge nationwide class of current and former employees that could total millions of women.

The case has pitted women's and employees' rights against business interests, with Robin Conrad of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce calling it "the most important class-action case facing the court in over a decade."

The case will have far-reaching implications for working women who challenge discrimination, women's rights advocate Marcia Greenberger of the National Women's Law Center said.

"The ability of women to be treated fairly in the workplace hangs in the balance," Greenberger said.

The ruling, expected by late June, could change the legal landscape for workplace classaction lawsuits and affect many cases, including a similar one against Costco Wholesale Corp.

Large class-action lawsuits make it easier for big groups of plaintiffs to sue corporations and they have yielded huge payouts by tobacco, oil and food companies. Companies have sought to limit such lawsuits to individual or small groups of plaintiffs.

The Supreme Court, with a conservative majority that has often ruled for businesses, has already limited large classaction securities fraud lawsuits and asbestos cases.

If Walmart wins, the huge class would be undone, though the company still could face individual discrimination lawsuits. If the workers win, they would be able to pursue their lawsuit as a collective group at trial.

The Walmart lawsuit has produced testimony that managers held business meetings at Hooters restaurants, attended strip clubs and referred to female employees as "girls," in what plaintiffs lawyers said was a corporate culture rife with stereotypes demeaning to women.

Walmart, founded in 1962 and based in Bentonville, Arkansas, has denied the allegations and said it has operated under a policy barring discrimination.

The discount retailer said the claims involving current and former female workers, hourly employees and salaried managers, and stores across the country are too different to proceed as a single class-action lawsuit.

Lawyer Theodore Boutrous, who will argue for Walmart, said bundling together all the diverse claims is unfair, making it impossible for the company to defend itself.

"Class actions can be helpful for efficiency, and there's an attraction to that. But at some point, they can start chopping away rights. I think that's what happened here," Boutrous told reporters.

Document VNCS000020110326e73q0004u



Leader
A better, fairer way to change the law

655 words
24 March 2011
Business Day
MEWBUD
Business Day
English
Copyright 2011.    Business Day.      

COMPETITION Tribunal chairman Norman Manoim was clearly reluctant to accede to the government’s application for the hearing into Walmart’s R16,5bn takeover of Massmart to be stayed for six weeks. He eventually granted the application, apparently to avoid the likelihood that the trade unions that are opposing the deal would approach the Competition Appeals Court for a review of the hearing timetable, which Mr Manoim had just set out and would have kicked off this week with testimony by Massmart CEO Grant Pattison.

It is doubtful that the tribunal was overly concerned that the appeals court would rule against it. After all, the government and unions have had plenty of time to put their thoughts together, and the arguments contained in the application were decidedly thin. The government was banking on the merging parties and objectors reaching some sort of compromise agreement by now, apparently, and when this failed to materialise there was a last-minute scramble to intervene.

While we have some sympathy for the tribunal’s position — it is undoubtedly preferable to avoid bothering the appeals court wherever possible, and there’s a lot to be said for bending over backwards to ensure everyone has their say — it may all be for nought. Walmart and Massmart indicated yesterday that they too are considering their legal options, so the appeals court could still be drawn into the equation.

As important as it is for the government and trade unions to have an opportunity to express their concerns over the implications of deals of this size, companies have rights too. First and foremost, they have a right to procedural fairness, which includes not being forced to endure unnecessary delays, and not having the goalposts shifted. In addition, the interests of civil society do not always coincide with those of the state and labour. Who is speaking up for consumers — including the poor — who are likely beneficiaries of lower prices should Walmart be able to implement its famously efficient business model in SA?

The government seems torn between a desire to encourage foreign direct investment and the New Growth Path’s bias against free markets. It wants the capital inflow and reputational advantage of hosting global players such as Walmart, and pays lip service to the benefits of intense retail competition, but insists everything take place on its terms. This was as good as admitted to by acting trade and industry director-general, Lionel October, when he was questioned in Parliament last week while briefing MPs on the department’s strategic plan. He said the government didn’t want to block the deal, but was seeking extraordinary concessions from the merging parties, such as agreements to source a percentage of products locally, favour small and black-owned suppliers, and undertake not to retrench anyone.

Mr October conceded these demands were & potentially discriminating& in that Walmart-Massmart would have to operate under restrictions that did not apply to other retailers, but said it was government policy to attempt to expand the definition of & public interest& contained in the Competition Act and create a & new area of competition law& The government submission to the tribunal went further, warning the merger could undermine the New Growth Path if approved without restriction, especially the plan to rebuild SA’s manufacturing capacity, draw more South Africans into entrepreneurial activities, strengthen rural development and empower women and the youth. It pointedly linked the New Growth Path’s objectives with the public interest clause of the Competition Act, which if accepted by the tribunal would certainly achieve the goal of creating a & new area of competition law& But at what cost?

This is not the way to go about amending legislation. If the government believes the Competition Act does not go far enough in defending the public interest, that is what Parliament is for.

Document MEWBUD0020110324e73o00008

InsideUpdates; News
Supreme Court case involving Wal-Mart could help determine how big one lawsuit can get

Legal News    
172 words
24 March 2011
Inside Counsel
INCOUNS
Issue 3
English
Copyright 2011 Inside Counsel. A Summit Business Media publication. All rights reserved    

Reporting from Berkeley—

Brad Seligman is a determined civil rights lawyer with a small office and a powerful idea for turning a single lawsuit into a nationwide class action claim against America's largest employer.

Armed with stories from several women who said they were passed over for promotions at

Wal-Mart Stores Inc.

, Seligman is at the helm of what could be the largest job-discrimination case in U.S. history, affecting as many as two million women and putting at risk tens of billions of dollars of the company's money.

This

U.S. Supreme Court

case, a decade in the making, has been described as the battle of Berkeley versus Bentonville, in which crusading liberal lawyers take on the conservative, male-dominated culture of the Arkansas-based retail giant.

Read the full LA Times story, "

Supreme Court case involving Wal-Mart could help determine how big one lawsuit can get

."

Document INCOUNS020110325e73o00001



Other World Stories
Wal-Mart to seek rejection of class action over alleged sex    discrimination .

663 words
23 March 2011
The Irish Times
IRTI
15
English
(c) 2011, The Irish Times.      

WASHINGTON – Wal-Mart Stores will urge the US Supreme Court next week to reject the largest class action sex discrimination lawsuit in history, brought by women employees of the company who are seeking billions of dollars.

The top US court hears arguments on March 29th in a lawsuit against the world’s largest retailer for allegedly giving women less pay and fewer promotions at 3,400 US stores since late 1998.

Lawyers for the two sides will argue over whether the small group of women who began the lawsuit 10 years ago can represent a huge nationwide class of current and former employees that could total millions of women.

The case has pitted women’s and employees’ rights against business interests, with Robin Conrad of the US Chamber of Commerce calling it “the most important class-action case facing the court in over a decade”.

The case will have far-reaching implications for working women who challenge discrimination, women’s rights advocate Marcia Greenberger of the National Women’s Law Centre said. “The ability of women to be treated fairly in the workplace hangs in the balance,” Ms Greenberger said.

The ruling, expected by late June, could change the legal landscape for workplace class-action lawsuits and affect many cases, including a similar one against Costco Wholesale.

Large class-action lawsuits make it easier for big groups of plaintiffs to sue corporations and they have yielded huge payouts by tobacco, oil and food companies.

Companies have sought to limit such lawsuits to individual or small groups of plaintiffs.

The Supreme Court, with a conservative majority that has often ruled for businesses, has already limited large class-action securities fraud lawsuits and asbestos cases. If Wal-Mart wins, the huge class would be undone, though the company still could face individual discrimination lawsuits. If the workers win, they would be able to pursue their lawsuit as a collective group at trial.

Legal experts and financial analysts said Wal-Mart, with more than $400 billion (€280 billion) in sales and $16 billion in net income last year, has enough cash to make even a big payout if it loses at trial.

“It would take a seismic ruling against the company to have an impact on the valuation,” said RJ Hottovy, equity analyst at the Chicago-based Morningstar investment research firm.

The Wal-Mart lawsuit has produced testimony managers held meetings at Hooters restaurants, attended strip clubs and referred to female employees as “girls” in what plaintiffs’ lawyers said was a corporate culture rife with stereotypes demeaning to women.

Wal-Mart, founded in 1962 and based in Bentonville, Arkansas, has denied the allegations and said it has operated under a policy barring discrimination.

The discount retailer said the claims involving current and former female workers, hourly employees and salaried managers, and stores across the country are too different to proceed as a single class-action lawsuit.

Lawyer Theodore Boutrous, who will argue for Wal-Mart, said bundling together all the diverse claims is unfair, making it impossible for the firm to defend itself.

“Class actions can be helpful for efficiency, and there’s an attraction to that. But at some point, they can start chopping away rights. I think that’s what happened here,” Mr Boutrous told reporters.

Jocelyn Larkin and other lawyers for the employees disagreed. They said overwhelming evidence supported the judge’s decision, upheld by an appeals court, to certify the nationwide class for trial.

“Wal-Mart is attempting to dismantle the Supreme Court’s employment discrimination class-action jurisprudence,” she said.

“Such far-reaching changes to the law would require the court to overrule 45 years of civil rights and class-action precedent. This would rule out certification of all but the smallest employment discrimination cases.”

The Obama administration did not take a position in the dispute, though the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission previously supported the workers.

Document IRTI000020110323e73n00026

 Wal-Mart Pushes (Shoves?) Law Firms to Promote Minority Lawyers
WSJ Blogs, 02:36 PM, 23 March 2011, 310 words, By Nathan Koppel, (English)
The Supreme Court is due next week to consider whether potentially hundreds of thousands of women can band together to sue Wal-Mart for alleged sex discrimination.



WSJ LAW BLOG: Wal-Mart Pushes Law Firms To Promote Minority Lawyers

348 words
23 March 2011
03:10 PM
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.      

(This story has been posted on The Wall Street Journal Online's Law Blog at blogs.wsj.com/law/.)


 
  Posted by Nathan Koppel 
 

The Supreme Court is due next week to consider whether potentially hundreds of thousands of women can band together to sue Wal-Mart for alleged sex discrimination.

As that class action nears its high court debut, the Daily Journal in California explores the retail giant's diversity record in another arena: its relationship with outside counsel.

Wal-Mart has issued various requests to firms in recent years that they hire and retain more women and minority lawyers, but the company recently took a more controversial step: insisting that it have a say in deciding which firm lawyers get origination credit for Wal-Mart work.

The initiative, the Daily Journal reports, is designed to ensure that firms not only retain more minorities but also that they ensure that minorities are designated as key client contacts.

Some firms, the Journal reports, are not pleased that Wal-Mart is meddling in internal decisions about who gets client credit.

"Firms have always thought of their own firm's credit allocation system as internal," Trenton H. Norris, head of Arnold & Porter's San Francisco office, told the Daily Journal. "Wal-Mart's position is laudable in trying to do something concrete to promote diversity in the profession, but the resistance to it is understandable."

But Veta Richardson, incoming president and CEO of the Association of Corporate Counsel, said that Wal-Mart's control of origination credit is a "forward-thinking, progressive step."

"We don't have enough evidence yet to see what this will do," added Marci Rubin, executive director of the California Minority Counsel Program. "It will make a difference in credit, that's clear. Whether or not that translates into clout and seriously into power within the firm - that's an issue to be seen."

-For continuously updated news from The Wall Street Journal, see WSJ.com at http://wsj.com. [ 03-23-11 1610ET ]

Document DJ00000020110323e73n000nz

Discovering Facebook: social network subpoenas and the Stored Communications Act.

Ward, Ryan A. 
12,368 words
22 March 2011
Harvard Journal of Law & Technology
HJLAT
563
ISSN: 0897-3393; Volume 24; Issue 2
English
Copyright 2011. Harvard Law School, Harvard Journal of Law & Technology 


TABLE OF CONTENTS

I. INTRODUCTION
II. THE STORED COMMUNICATIONS ACT
  A. SCA Background
  B. What Does the SCA Do?
    1. Parties Covered by the SCA
    2. Protections and Restrictions on ECS and RCS
      Providers
III. APPLYING THE SCA TO SOCIAL NETWORKS: CRISPIN V.
CHRISTIAN AUDIGIER, INC
  A. Case Background
  B. The Court's Analysis
    1. Private Messages
    2. Wall Posts, Comments, etc.
  C. Result
IV. CASES THAT HAVE IGNORED THE SCA
  A. Ledbetter v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
  B. Romano v. Steelcase Inc.
V. THE PROPER APPROACH TO SOCIAL NETWORK DISCOVERY
  A. Step One: Apply the Rules of Civil Procedure
  B. Step Two: Apply the SCA
VI. CONCLUSION


I. INTRODUCTION

For many people, online social networks have become an important part of everyday life. A recent study showed that Americans spend over 20% of their online time on social networks and blogs. (1) Although these networks began as sites where users could simply find friends and view their contact information, they have grown increasingly complex. Modern social networking sites allow users to upload photographs and videos, post status updates, comment on friends' posts, play games, and send messages to other users. As the functionality of these sites has expanded, there has been a dramatic increase in both the number of users and the amount of content shared on social networks. Facebook, for example, currently has over five-hundred million active users, and the " [a]verage user creates 90 pieces of content each month." (2)

As Americans share more personal information on their social networking pages, lawyers have increasingly looked to these social networks as litigation resources. (3) Information from these sites is useful because "users of social network sites often 'let their hair down' in a way that surpasses even the thoughtless statements that all too often appear in email." (4) However, the best method for obtaining this information remains unclear. Lawyers can request social network information directly from users, but there may be problems with information access and formatting. Because social network users do not have access to the native format, they are only able to produce screenshots of their social network pages. (5) Additionally, it is impossible to know whether users have included all relevant information, because they may not have access to all of it. (6) For these reasons, many lawyers have found it easier to request social network information directly from social networks using civil subpoenas. (7) Social networks, like Facebook and Myspace, (8) have resisted these subpoenas, however, by invoking the protection of the Stored Communications Act ("SCA"). (9)

Since the adoption of the SCA in 1986, courts have used the Act to protect the privacy of Internet users. (10) This is consistent with Congress's intention to "protect privacy interests in personal and proprietary information, while protecting the Government's legitimate law enforcement needs." (11) From the text of the SCA, it is uncertain whether this protection extends to information on social networks, as Facebook and Myspace claim. Without the SCA, however, there is little to protect users from aggressive litigants and government prosecutors who wish to access their social network information. (12)

This Note explores the challenges related to discovery of online social network information. Part II explores what protections, if any, the SCA provides against discovery of information on online social networks. Part III analyzes the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California's decision in Crispin v. Christian Audigier, Inc.,12 the first case to hold that social networks are protected from disclosing some information by the SCA. Part IV critiques recent decisions that have allowed broad discovery of social network information, arguing that the discovery requests in these cases violated Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(b)(1) and that the requested information should have qualified for SCA protection. Part V assumes that litigants will continue requesting social network information through discovery requests and subpoenas, and attempts to determine the proper scope of this discovery by looking at recent cases and the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Part VI concludes.

II. THE STORED COMMUNICATIONS ACT

A. SCA Background

The SCA was enacted as Title II of the Electronic Communications Privacy Act ("ECPA").14 Congress adopted the statute, in part, to address privacy concerns created by the rise of new technologies such as the Internet that the Fourth Amendment could not adequately address. (15) In enacting the SCA, Congress hoped to "protect privacy interests in personal and proprietary information" that may be stored on the Internet. (16) It is worth noting that Congress's conception of the Internet in 1986 was quite different from the Internet as it exists today. The World Wide Web had not been developed, and cloud computing services and online social networks would not exist for nearly a decade. (17) Internet users in 1986 could essentially do three things: (1) download and send e-mail; (2) post messages to online bulletin boards; and (3) upload and store information that they could access on other computers. (18) The definitions and prohibitions listed in the SCA align with these three functions as they existed in 1986. Because Congress has not updated the statute, courts have struggled to apply the SCA in light of the explosive growth of the World Wide Web. (19)

B. What Does the SCA Do?

Broadly speaking, the SCA "regulat[es] the relationship between government investigators and [network] service producers in possession of users' private information," limiting the government's ability to compel disclosure of this information from third parties. (20) This Note examines the SCA by looking at two questions: First, which service providers are protected by the SCA? And second, what does the SCA prevent these service providers from doing?

1. Parties Covered by the SCA

The SCA applies to communications stored on the Internet by third-party providers; an individual cannot use the SCA to avoid a court order requiring her to disclose online information herself. (21) The SCA protects communications stored by two different types of online services: electronic communication service ("ECS") providers and remote computing service ("RCS") providers. (22) Each service has different statutory requirements, but it is possible for the same provider to act as an ECS provider for some content and an RCS provider for other content. (23) If a third party is neither an ECS nor an RCS provider, it can disclose any electronic communication it has obtained from electronic storage, even if this information was obtained illegally. (24)

The SCA defines an ECS as "any service which provides to users thereof the ability to send or receive wire or electronic communications." (25) Electronic communications include any form of communication "transmitted in whole or in part by a wire, radio, electromagnetic, photoelectric, or photooptical system that affects interstate commerce." (26) The statute's definition of ECS providers was intended to cover providers of services, such as e-mail, which required third-party providers to copy and temporarily store electronic communications. (27)

An RCS provider, on the other hand, provides "computer storage or processing services [to the public] by means of an electronic communications system." (28) Although there is debate about the meaning of "processing services," (29) orin Kerr claims the statute's definition of RCS providers was intended to cover companies that outsourced computing tasks, which was a common use of third-party network service providers when the SCA was adopted. (30)

Additionally, the SCA only protects ECS and RCS providers that make their services available "to the public at large, whether for a fee or without cost." (31) If users need a special relationship to get access to a service, the service is nonpublic and can disclose users' electronic communications voluntarily. (32)

2. Protections and Restrictions on ECS and RCS Providers

The SCA generally prevents ECS and RCS providers from disclosing their users' electronic communications to the government or a third party--either voluntarily or under compulsion--without a search warrant. (33) There are some statutory exceptions that allow ECS and RCS providers to disclose information, but these rarely arise in practice. (34) Unless one of these exceptions applies, the government cannot obtain content information from public ECS or RCS providers without a search warrant. (35)

Additionally, the SCA only applies to content information contained in electronic communications held by ECS and RCS providers. (36) Content is described as "any information concerning the substance, purport, or meaning of that communication." (37) The content of an e-mail, for example, would include the subject and body text of that e-mail, but would not include any logs or subscriber information related to the sending. (38) In the social networking context, therefore, the SCA would likely not prohibit ECS and RCS providers from disclosing a subscriber's user name or a list of times she logged into the website.

Finally, the SCA only prohibits ECS and RCS providers from disclosing content information that is held for specific purposes enumerated in the statute. ECS providers, for example, are prevented from knowingly disclosing the contents of an electronic communication "while in electronic storage by that service." (39) Electronic storage is given two definitions in the statute. First, electronic storage is "any temporary, intermediate storage of a wire or electronic communication incidental to the electronic transmission thereof." (40) The statute does not give examples of storage incidental to transmission, although courts have applied this section to prohibit disclosure of communications such as unread e-mails. (41) Second, the statute defines electronic storage as "any storage of such communication by an electronic communication service for purposes of backup protection of such communication." (42) Neither the text of the statute nor the legislative history indicates Congress's intended meaning of "backup protection." (43) For this reason, courts must supply their own definition of "backup protection" to determine whether an electronic storage is protected under the SCA. (44)

RCS providers, on the other hand, cannot knowingly divulge the contents of any electronic communication "carried or maintained on that service ... solely for the purpose of providing storage or computer processing services" to any person or entity. (45) Once again, the meaning of "storage or computer processing services" is not defined in the statute or its legislative history. (46) If a court looks at the common understanding of the phrase in 1986, it would likely limit the SCA's coverage to anachronistic number-crunching services that are performed today by modern software. (47) If a court applies a literal reading of the term, it will likely encompass the majority of modern Internet providers since nearly every service offers some storage or processing features.

This is the framework that courts must use to protect social networks from disclosing their users' communications. If any of these basic requirements is not satisfied, social networks will not be exempt from compulsory disclosure. The next Part examines a recent opinion from the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California that was the first to extend SCA protection to social networks.

III. APPLYING THE SCA TO SOCIAL NETWORKS: CRISPIN V. CHRISTIAN AUDIGIER, INC.

A. Case Background

In December 2009, Buckley Crispin filed an action against Christian Audigier and Christian Audigier, Inc. ("CAI"), claiming five causes of action including breach of contract and copyright infringement. (48) Crispin alleged that he granted the defendants an oral license to use fifteen of his copyrighted works. (49) In the course of discovery, the defendants served civil subpoenas on Facebook, Media Temple, Inc., and MySpace, Inc., seeking discovery of "Crispin's basic subscriber information" and various communications made by Crispin. (50)

Crispin attempted to quash the subpoenas by arguing, among other things, that they sought electronic communications that the companies could not disclose under the SCA. (51) Magistrate Judge John E. McDermott rejected this argument, holding that the SCA did not apply for three reasons. First, the SCA only protects ECS providers, and "businesses providing products or services on or through the internet are not ECS providers." (52) Second, the SCA only prohibits voluntary disclosure of electronic communications, not disclosure compelled by subpoena. (53) Third, Judge McDermott held that "the SCA only prohibits an ECS from voluntarily disclosing electronic communications 'while in electronic storage by that service,'" and the communications at issue were "not in 'electronic storage,' as that term is defined by the statute." (54)

Crispin moved for reconsideration on the issue of whether Media Temple, Facebook, and MySpace were protected from disclosure under the SCA. (55) Judge Margaret Morrow of the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California reviewed the Order, reversing Judge McDermott and finding that the three companies were subject to the SCA.

The court found that Judge McDermott fundamentally misunderstood how these services operated by concluding that they "engaged in public messaging only." (56) Judge Morrow recognized that all three services offer a variety of other electronic communication services. Media Temple, for example, provides "webmail," which allows "users to view email messages." (57) Facebook and MySpace also offer "private messaging services" as well as "Facebook wall postings and the MySpace comments [that] are not strictly 'public.'" (58) These differences affect the providers' classifications under the SCA as well as the level of protection they receive.

B. The Court's Analysis

After presenting background on the SCA, Judge Morrow addressed the primary issue of whether the subpoenas should be quashed under the SCA. Recognizing that no court "appears to have addressed whether social-networking sites fall within the ambit of the [SCA]," (59) the court took a two-step approach. First, the court determined whether Media Temple, Facebook, and MySpace qualified as ECS providers under existing case law. Second, the court asked whether the specific content on these services met the definition of "electronic communications." Ultimately, it concluded that the services operate as ECS and RCS providers at different times, depending on the content at issue. (60)

1. Private Messages

Judge Morrow differentiated between read and unread private messages, holding that they are protected in different ways under the SCA. Traditionally, e-mail services have been protected as ECS providers because they provided "a conduit for the transmission of electronic communications from one user to another, and stored those communications 'as a "backup" for the user.'" (61) This reasoning applied to e-mail services as they existed throughout the 1980s and 1990s, when users would "download emails from an ISP's server to their own computers" and the ECS provider would retain copies of these e-mails in case the downloaded version was lost or deleted. (62) Like e-mails, private messages on online social networks can only be viewed by the sender and the recipient of the message. Although the private messaging services on Media Temple, Facebook, and MySpace differ from traditional e-mail services in some ways, they both allow users to send messages to individual recipients. As a result, the court found "no basis for distinguishing" between e-mails and private messages on social networks. (63) The court then looked at what information ECS providers could protect from disclosure and concluded that the storage of unread private messages was "incidental" to the original transmission within the meaning of the SCA. (64) Media Temple, Facebook, and MySpace were therefore operating as ECS providers for "messages that have not yet been opened," and these private messages were protected by the SCA. (65)

Judge Morrow took a different approach for private messages that have been opened or read, determining that the services were operating as RCS providers for this content. (66) The court relied heavily on United States v. Weaver, an Illinois case that applied the SCA to Microsoft's Hotmail e-mail service, finding that it was "web-based" and "remote." (67) Under the SCA, an ECS provider is protected from disclosure if it stores opened messages for "backup purposes" and not for purposes incidental to transmission. (68) The Weaver court noted that Hotmail's default setting was for all e-mails to be stored on Microsoft's servers and that "Microsoft [was] not storing that user's opened messages for backup purposes." (69) The Weaver court therefore held that once an e-mail was read, Hotmail stopped being an ECS provider and "became an RCS provider, providing remote storage service for the email." (70) Adopting the reasoning of this opinion and dicta from Theofel v. Farey-Jones (71) the Crispin court held that once a private message was read, Media Temple, Facebook, and MySpace operated "as RCS providers providing storage services under [section] 2702(a)(2)." (72) Judge Morrow noted that this shifting system was consistent with Ninth Circuit precedent, (73) case law in other jurisdictions, (74) and legal scholarship. (75)

Although services like Facebook and MySpace fit the definition of RCS providers for private messages that have been opened or read, these messages might have also been protected from disclosure if the court had considered Facebook and MySpace to be ECS providers. (76) The Crispin court may have avoided this route because of dicta in Theofel v. Farey-Jones, noting that "[a] remote computing service might be the only place a user stores his messages; in that case, the messages are not stored for backup purposes." (77) Other courts are free to ignore this reasoning and could instead adopt a commonsense definition of "backup purposes" that would include cloud-based private messaging systems.

2. Wall Posts, Comments, etc.

Next, the court considered whether Facebook Wall posts or MySpace Comments are protected under the SCA by analogizing to private electronic bulletin board services ("BBS"). (78) The legislative history of the SCA suggests that Congress expected private BBS to be protected from disclosure, and the text of the statute is not inconsistent with this goal. (79) It is unclear, however, whether Facebook and MySpace are operating as ECS or RCS providers for this content. The court did not resolve this issue, holding that the social networks qualify for protection either way. (80)

Judge Morrow first explains that "Facebook and MySpace are ECS providers as respects wall postings and comments and that such communications are in electronic storage." (81) At least two cases, including the Ninth Circuit's decision in Konop v. Hawaiian Airlines, Inc., have held that a private BBS qualifies as an ECS provider under the SCA. (82) In Konop, the Ninth Circuit considered an invitation-only BBS located on a secure website to be an ECS provider and held, without detail, that the communications on the BBS were in electronic storage. (83) The Crispin court analogized to this case, declaring that a BBS post was "in all material ways analogous to a Facebook wall posting or a MySpace comment" (84) and that "there is no basis for distinguishing between a restricted-access BBS and a user's Facebook wall or MySpace comments." (85)

Regarding Facebook Wall posts and MySpace Comments, the court did not distinguish between read and unread content, adopting the reasoning of an earlier BBS case that recognized there is no intermediate storage for this kind of content because the "website is the final destination for the information." (86) In order for these posts to be in electronic storage, therefore, the Konop court must have concluded that they were stored for "backup purposes." (87)

Judge Morrow seemed to recognize the unusual nature of this claim, which requires adopting a broad definition of "backup purposes." The court explained that this is consistent with Ninth Circuit precedent, which has "implicitly held that although a user may have other purposes for ... leaving a post on his or her Facebook wall, rather than ... deleting the Facebook wall posting after the information has become stale, one of the multiple purposes may be for backup storage." (88) This interpretation is consistent with the text of the statute and is likely "more coherent and more consistent with Congressional intent" than categorizing Facebook Wall posts and MySpace Comments as intermediate storage, which is unprotected by the SCA. (89)

Next, the Crispin court held that Facebook and MySpace were also protected as RCS providers with respect to Wall posts and Comments. (90) The court analogized to Viacom International Inc. v. YouTube Inc., which held that YouTube is an RCS provider "because their authorization to access and delete potentially infringing private videos is granted in connection with defendants' provision of alleged storage services." (91) Similarly, Facebook and MySpace store a wide range of content for their users, from pictures and videos to Wall posts and Comments. (92) The court rejected the defendants' claim that Facebook and MySpace could not be RCS providers because some communications were maintained for display purposes and not "'solely' for the purpose of storage" as used in section 2702(a)(2)(B). (93) Judge Morrow held that "a storage service necessarily requires a retrieval mechanism to be useful," and noted that the defendants' argument was inconsistent with the YouTube decision. (94)

Regardless of whether Facebook and MySpace are ECS or RCS providers, the Crispin court cautioned that "a completely public BBS does not merit protection under the SCA." (95) In order to be protected from disclosure, therefore, Facebook Wall posts and MySpace Comments must not be "completely public." Judge Morrow distinguished Facebook and MySpace from "completely public" BBS by noting that the users of both websites can limit public access via privacy settings. (96) Nevertheless, it was unclear whether Crispin had employed these privacy settings, so the court vacated and remanded to Judge McDermott to determine "plaintiff's privacy settings and the extent of access allowed to his Facebook wall and MySpace comments." (97)

C. Result

The Crispin court properly followed Ninth Circuit precedent and furthered the SCA's stated purpose by protecting the privacy of social network users. Judge Morrow recognized that social networks are both ECS and RCS providers, and that determining "which protections apply is a [sic] governed by the type of storage involved." (98) The court was wise to carefully deconstruct the different types of content on social networks and explain how that content satisfied the statute's requirements for ECS or RCS providers.

Assuming other courts follow the approach laid out in Crispin, there are still many open questions about the SCA's applicability to social network content that is not inherently private. Most obviously, the Crispin court fails to give any real guidance on the precise requirements for SCA protection of Wall posts and other non-private message content. Must content be limited to a certain number of friends? Does content still fall under the SCA if your friends' friends can view it? For a proposed solution to this question, see infra Part V.

IV. CASES THAT HAVE IGNORED THE SCA

Although Crispin was the first case to hold that the SCA protects some social network information from subpoenas, other cases have addressed discovery of social network information more broadly. Most of these cases have concluded that social network information is admissible so long as it is relevant to the case, thus forcing parties to turn over access to users' social networks. In addition to allowing overbroad discovery requests, these cases fail to explain why the SCA does not protect at least some of the information contained in the discovery request.

A. Ledbetter v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

In Ledbetter v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., plaintiffs and repairmen Joel Ledbetter and Heath Powell alleged that they "suffered permanent physical and psychological injuries" resulting from an electrical accident at a Wal-Mart located in Aurora, Colorado. (99) Heath Powell's wife, Disa Powell, also brought a claim for loss of right of consortium. (100) Wal-Mart issued subpoenas to Facebook, MySpace, and Meetup.com for "[a]ny and all internet usage activity" related to the plaintiffs' accounts. (101) The Facebook subpoenas requested "private messages for user account, private blog entries of user account, and ip log [sic] of user account." (102) Similarly, subpoenas issued to MySpace and Meetup.com asked for "IP logs, date profile was created; email address of user; friend requests; private messages; private blog entries; photographs; bulletins; and any additional information." (103) The plaintiffs responded by arguing that the subpoenas were "overly broad and amount[ed] to a fishing expedition," (104) and asked the court to grant a protective order that would require production of all responsive documents "directly to the Court for an in camera review." (105) In a brief order, the court denied this request and found that the subpoenas were "reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence as is relevant to the issues in this case." (106)

There are two problems with the Ledbetter court's holding. First, the court did not consider whether the SCA prevented the social networks from disclosing the plaintiff's content. (107) Because the subpoenas specifically requested private messages, private blog entries, and other information that was not accessible by the general public, the court's failure to address the SCA was an error. Indeed, all three social networks later refused to comply with Wal-Mart's subpoena, claiming the SCA prevented them from complying with the court order. (108) Second, the court granted the defendant's subpoena despite the fact that it sought all information on the plaintiffs' social network accounts, regardless of whether it was related to the injuries at issue in the lawsuit. (109) Such broad discovery violates the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, which require that the discovery be "relevant to any party's claim or defense" or "reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (110)

B. Romano v. Steelcase Inc.

Similarly, in Romano v. Steelcase Inc., (111) the plaintiff claimed she suffered permanent injuries when she fell from a defective chair manufactured by the defendant. (112) The defendant believed that the plaintiff's social network accounts contained photographs that were inconsistent with these claims and sought a court order granting "access to Plaintiff's current and historical Facebook and MySpace pages and accounts, including all deleted pages and related information." (113) Judge Spinner began his opinion by briefly noting that he had reviewed the applicable federal law, including the SCA. (114) This was the only time the court mentioned the SCA and Judge Spinner never explained why it did not apply to the requested information. Instead, the court's opinion focused on whether the defendant's request fell within the scope of permissible discovery under New York evidence law and whether production of these documents would violate the plaintiff's right to privacy.

Judge Spinner first analyzed the state's liberal discovery standard, which requires disclosure of information that is "material and necessary to the defense or prosecution of an action" (115) or "may lead to the disclosure of admissible proof." (116) The information requested from the plaintiff's Facebook and MySpace pages satisfied both of these standards. First, the information was "material and necessary to the defense of this action" because the plaintiff's public Facebook picture showed her smiling happily outside of her home, contradicting her claim that she was "largely confined to her house and bed." (117) Second, and most importantly, the plaintiff's profile picture led the court to conclude "there [was] a reasonable likelihood that the private portions of her site may contain further evidence ... with regard to her activities and enjoyment of life" that would be admissible in court. (118) The court recognized that "there is no New York case law directly addressing [discovery of social network information]," but referenced Ledbetter and five Canadian cases that allowed broad discovery of social network pages by defendants in personal injury lawsuits. (119) Reasoning from these cases, Judge Spinner held that denying the defendant's requested court order "would go against the liberal discovery policies of New York favoring pre-trial disclosure ... [and] condone Plaintiff's attempt to hide relevant information behind self-regulated privacy settings." (120)

Next, the court considered whether the plaintiff had an expectation of privacy in her Facebook and MySpace pages. Although no court had addressed this issue in New York, the court mentioned a Second Circuit case that found no expectation of privacy for "transmissions over the Internet or e-mail that have already arrived at the recipient." (121) Additionally, Judge Spinner cited three cases that found no expectation of privacy for MySpace writings that were "shared with others." (122) The court did not rely on the reasoning of these cases. Instead, Judge Spinner held that the plaintiff had no reasonable expectation of privacy on her social networks because "neither Facebook nor MySpace guarantee complete privacy." (123) The court looked to the privacy policies of both companies, which warn users that their information may become publicly available. (124) Because of this warning, Judge Spinner held that "when Plaintiff created her Facebook and MySpace accounts, she consented to the fact that her personal information would be shared with others, notwithstanding her privacy settings." (125)

Romano has received a great deal of attention and criticism in the months since it was issued. (126) This Note argues that Judge Spinner's decision was incorrect for three reasons. First, the court's order granted the defendant overly broad access to the plaintiff's social network accounts. Instead, discovery should have been narrowly tailored to information related to the case. Not everything on the plaintiff's Facebook and MySpace pages was relevant to the lawsuit. (127) It is likely that the majority of information on her social network pages had no relevance to "the issue of damages and the extent of [her] injury." (128) For example, the majority of the plaintiff's daily correspondences with friends and family would be unlikely to discuss the details of her injury, but may reveal personal information that is both embarrassing and unrelated to the claims at issue. By granting the defendant such broad discovery without court oversight, Judge Spinner pushes the discovery rules to their breaking point by allowing the defendant to engage in a fishing expedition for information about the plaintiff. (129)

Second, the court never discusses the SCA or the recent Crispin decision, despite recognizing that the SCA prevents social networks from disclosing at least some information. (130) Instead, Judge Spinner cites five Canadian cases that did not apply American law and one District of Colorado case that also overlooked the SCA. (131) Because the court order required Facebook and MySpace to produce nonpublic information from the plaintiff's account, including deleted pages, it was an error for Judge Spinner to ignore the SCA.

Third, the court's conclusion that users have no reasonable expectation of privacy for content they upload to social networks is predicated on faulty reasoning. The court relies heavily on Facebook's claim that "if you disclose personal information in your profile ... this information may become publicly available." (132) This language is simply a warning that Facebook cannot guarantee that third parties will not illegally access users' accounts, not a concession that users have no reasonable expectation of privacy. (133) By reasoning that the mere possibility of information becoming publicly available removes any reasonable expectation of privacy, Judge Spinner reads the word "reasonable" out of the legal standard for privacy. The court seems to say that if there is any chance of information becoming public, no matter how this information might be obtained, there can be no expectation of privacy. This reasoning is dangerous. For example, in the physical world, it is generally understood that houses are not entirely secure. Regardless of security measures, it is possible for burglars to break into homes, steal information, and then make that information publicly available. According to Judge Spinner's reasoning, people should not be able to claim a reasonable expectation of privacy within their homes. Surely this is wrong. (134) Privacy measures, including privacy settings, create a reasonable expectation that at least some social network information will not be publicly available. This claim is consistent with the cases cited by Judge Spinner, which only held that there is no reasonable expectation of privacy for MySpace writings that were made available to the public by the user. (135)

V. THE PROPER APPROACH TO SOCIAL NETWORK DISCOVERY

The cases above demonstrate that courts have not adopted a uniform approach to discovery requests for social network information. Because social network discovery is poised to become a common occurrence in civil cases, it is important to ask what the proper scope of this discovery should be. (136) This Note advocates a two-step approach: (1) apply the rules of civil procedure; and (2) apply the SCA. (137)

In step one, when a court is confronted with a subpoena or court order requesting social network information, it should ask whether the request is both narrowly tailored to produce relevant information and "reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (138) Unless both requirements are met, the court should prevent discovery either by quashing the subpoena or denying the court order.

If both requirements of step one are met, then, in step two, the court should determine whether the SCA protects the requested information from disclosure. Most courts seem to reverse these steps, addressing a party's SCA arguments before determining whether the request is overbroad or unlikely to produce admissible evidence. (139)

A. Step One: Apply the Rules of Civil Procedure

Courts should begin with issues of overbreadth and admissibility because SCA protection is irrelevant when the request violates federal or state rules governing discovery. The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure limit what evidence is discoverable by requiring that information be narrowly tailored to produce information relevant to the claims at issue in the case and "reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (140) Just like any other kind of evidence, a discovery request for information on a social network page should be rejected as overly broad if it is unlimited in scope, or not related to an alleged injury or claim for recovery. The relevant inquiry is whether the discovery request is so broad that it amounts to a fishing expedition. (141) It would be exceedingly rare for discovery requesting all content on a social network profile to be narrowly tailored to produce relevant information when the vast majority of content on a litigant's social network site likely has nothing to do with a material issue in the case. (142) Courts should be especially mindful of this concern when the requesting party has other pending or potential lawsuits in which the requested information could be used for harassment or to prolong litigation of frivolous claims.

Two recent cases illustrate how the overbreadth inquiry should be applied. First, in Crispin v. Christian Audigier, Inc., detailed in Part III, the defendants served subpoenas on Facebook and MySpace. (143) The subpoenas sought "All COMMUNICATIONS by and between CRISPIN ... and BRYAN CALLAN," a non-party who filed a separate lawsuit against the plaintiff. (144) Magistrate Judge McDermott quashed these requests as overbroad because the defendants' complaint "does not mention Callan, and Callan's own artwork and lawsuit are unrelated to Crispin's lawsuit." (145) The court ruled that subpoena requests must be limited to communications related to defendants and their sublicensees. (146) Additionally, the court cautioned against allowing the defendants to use this lawsuit "to obtain discovery for use in Callan's suit." (147)

Second, similar issues arose in McCann v. Harleysville Insurance Co. of New York, a personal injury case in New York state court. (148) In that case, the defendant appealed two discovery motions that were denied by the trial court. First, the defendant sought to compel disclosure of photographs on the plaintiff's Facebook account and requested authorization to access all content on the plaintiff s Facebook account. (149) The appellate court affirmed the lower court's denial of this motion, concluding without explanation that it was overly broad. (150) Second, the defendant filed a subsequent motion that specified the type of evidence sought. (151) The appellate court also rejected this motion because the defendant failed to establish why the evidence was relevant to any of its claims. (152) The court held that the defendant's request for access to the plaintiff's Facebook account was nothing more than a "fishing expedition" in "hope of finding relevant evidence." (153)

Discovery requests that are overly broad or do not relate to one of the claims or defenses should be denied with leave to amend. If the request satisfies the relevant rules of civil procedure, courts must then determine whether the discovery request is invalid under the SCA.

B. Step Two: Apply the SCA

The Crispin decision offers valuable insight regarding the SCA's application, and future courts should look to its holdings for guidance. First, courts should determine whether a discovery request requires a social network to produce content from a party's account. If the discovery request does not require any action by a third party social network, the SCA does not apply. (154)

Second, courts should identify the different types of content being requested. Social network information can be separated into two categories: private messages and content that is generally visible to other people on the social network. Private messages include any communications sent to specific individuals through the social network platform that can only be viewed by those recipients. It does not matter if these communications are addressed to more than one party. On Facebook, for example, private messages include Messages and Chat. Generally-visible content is information a user posts to a social network that other users can view, even if they were not the intended audience. The Crispin court only considered Facebook Wall posts and MySpace Comments under this category, but this category is much broader. Generally-visible content on Facebook might also include profile information, status updates, photographs, Notes, Questions, Groups, and more.

Under the SCA, information that is "readily accessible to the general public" is not protected from disclosure. (155) Private messages are, by definition, unavailable to the public and will generally be protected. (156) It is unclear when generally visible content is "readily accessible to the general public" under the SCA. (157) Should something be public when thousands of people can see it, even if these people are your social network friends? Courts should, if possible, avoid drawing arbitrary lines related to the number of people who can view something, which would result in both under-inclusive and over-inclusive application of the SCA. (158) This Note advocates a narrow definition of "readily accessible to the general public" that is limited to information that is viewable by anyone who creates an account on the social network. This definition is consistent with a literal reading of "public" to mean "accessible to or shared by all members of the community." (159) Under this framework, Facebook content that is visible to "Everyone" is public; content set to any other setting ("Friends of Friends," "Friends Only," or "Other") is private. (160) In the context of Twitter, unprotected Tweets would be "public," but protected Tweets would not be. (161) This approach is also consistent with the rationale for adopting the SCA, (162) and the reasonable expectation of privacy that comes from using privacy settings on a social network site. (163)

Finally, courts should determine whether the content is protected as ECS or RCS. Because social networks qualify as both ECS and RCS providers, courts should look at the way content is stored to determine the proper protection. While the Crispin court's analysis is helpful, courts must be sure to focus on the underlying rationale for the SCA and not adopt limited definitions of key terms left undefined in the text or legislative history, including "backup protection" and "processing services." If other courts adopt a strict definition of these terms, the SCA will be limited to the three Internet functions that existed in 1986.164 This would allow the government to access billions of electronic communications held on social networks through the use of a standard civil subpoena, violently disrupting Congress's intended "fair balance between the privacy expectations of American citizens and the legitimate needs of law enforcement agencies" established in the SCA. (165) If courts cannot use the SCA "to balance the interests of users, law enforcement, and private industry, communications will be subjected to a tug-of-war between the private companies that transmit them and the government agencies that seek to access them.... [and] Internet users will find themselves with little protection." (166)

With that in mind, courts should follow the reasoning in Crispin and find that social networks are acting as ECS providers for unread private messages on their systems. (167) Similarly, these social networks should be protected from disclosing private messages that have been opened, because they store these messages as RCS providers. (168) It is less clear how courts should protect generally-visible content. Although Crispin holds that social networks can be protected as either ECS or RCS providers for such content, this Note suggests that it is more textually accurate to say that they are acting as ECS providers. (169) Judge Morrow relied on YouTube in holding that generally-visible content was protected as RCS because the phrase "solely for the purposes of storage," as used in the SCA, included both storage and display functions. (170) In so holding, the Crispin court departed from the clear text of the SCA to achieve a sensible result. This result is unnecessary, however, because generally-visible content can be protected as ECS by broadly defining a key term in the statute, "backup protection," to be consistent with congressional intent. Protecting social networks as ECS providers is also easier for judges because it allows them to interpret the text of the SCA and does not require a technical understanding of whether display functions are inherent in storage functions.

As mentioned previously, electronic communications are protected when an ECS provider stores them for "backup protection." (171) Unlike RCS providers, ECS providers do not have to store the communications "solely" for these purposes. (172) Courts should avoid adopting a narrow definition of this term that requires two copies of a communication for one of them to serve as a "backup." Instead, because one of the purposes for leaving generally-visible content on a social network, rather than deleting it, may be to store that content for backup protection, (173) courts should protect social networks as ECS providers for generally-visible content that is not publicly available.

It is worth noting that this protective approach, which will prevent social networks from disclosing large amounts of user content, does not completely bar access to information on social networks. Parties can ask courts to issue a search warrant, which trumps the SCA and requires social networks to comply with a discovery request. (174) Additionally, parties can request that courts compel a user to give her lawful consent for disclosure. (175) Once this consent is received, social networks are free to voluntarily disclose the information. Although courts have increasingly used this approach, it raises questions about whether courts are using compelled consent as a way to avoid the strict disclosure requirements established by Congress in the SCA. (176)

VI. CONCLUSION

The Stored Communications Act is an unnecessarily complicated statute. (177) Originally designed to protect the privacy of Internet users as the Internet existed in 1986, courts have been made to "extract[] operating principles from [the SCA's] tangled legal framework" and apply these to new Internet technologies. (178) Social networks present one of the latest challenges in this regard. Courts have taken inconsistent approaches in applying the SCA to social network information and many of these cases have obvious flaws. Even the Crispin decision, which represents a step in the right direction, provides incomplete guidance in determining whether social networks should be protected from disclosing certain content under the SCA. This Note attempts to fill this void by presenting a simplified two-step approach for dealing with discovery requests that require social networks to disclose their users' information. This is far from a complete solution to the problem of Internet privacy, but it honors congressional intent by serving as a roadblock for litigants who try to access private communications improperly.

(1.) What Americans Do Online: Social Media and Games Dominate Activity, NIELSEN WIRE (Aug. 2, 2010), http://blog.nielsen.com/nielsenwire/online_mobile/what-americans-do-online-social-media-and-games- dominate-activity.

(2.) Statistics, FACEBOOK, http://www.facebook.com/press/info.php7statistics (last visited May 6, 2011). According to Facebook, "50% of our active users log on to Facebook in any given day." Id.

(3.) See, e.g., Benjamin Rolf et al., The Usefulness of Social Networking Websites to a Resourceful Defense Team, STRICTLY SPEAKING (DRI, Chicago, Ill.), Feb. 11, 2008, at 1, available at http://www.dri.org/ContentDirectory/Public/Newsletters/0200/2008 Product Liability Committee Strictly Speaking Winter.pdf.

(4.) James Parton, Obtaining Records from Facebook, LinkedIn, Google and Other Social Networking Websites and Internet Service Providers, DRI Today (May 24, 2010, 9:40 AM), http://forthedefense.org/post/Obtaining-Records-From-Facebook-LinkedIn-Google-and-Other-Social-Networking- Websites-and-Internet-Service-Providers.aspx.

(5.) See Correy Stephenson, Social Networking Sites Complicate Litigation, New ORLEANS CITY BUS. (July 9, 2010, 8:16 AM), http://neworleanscitybusiness.com/blog/2010/07/09/social-networking-site-complicate-litigation/.

(6.) The most obvious example is information that has been deleted by the user. In that case, only the social network will have access to this information, if it still exists on its servers.

(7.) Facebook receives so many of these requests that it currently dedicates a section of its Help Center to answering questions about civil subpoenas. See Law Enforcement and Third-Party Matters, FACEBOOK, http://www.facebook.com/help/?page=1057 (last visited May 6, 2011).

(8.) Myspace, previously "MySpace," rebranded the website and introduced a new suite of products on October 27, 2010. See Meet the New Myspace, MYSPACE, http://www.myspace.com/pressroom/2010/10/meet-the-new-myspace/ (last visited May 6, 2011).

(9.) See, e.g., Law Enforcement and Third-Party Matters: May I Obtain Contents of a User's Account from Facebook Using a Civil Subpoena?, Facebook, http://www.facebook.com/help/?faq=17158 ("[T]he Stored Communications Act, 18 U.S.C. [section] 2701 et seq., prohibits Facebook from disclosing the contents of an account to any nongovernmental entity pursuant to a subpoena or court order.").

(10.) See, e.g., William Jeremy Robison, Note, Free at What Cost?: Cloud Computing Privacy Under the Stored Communications Act, 98 GEO. L.J. 1195, 1196 (2010) ("The resulting task of adapting the Act's language to modern technology has fallen largely upon the courts.").

(11.) S. Rep. No. 99-541, at 3 (1986), reprinted in 1986 U.S.C.C.A.N. 3555, 3557.

(12.) See Nathaniel Gleicher, Comment, Neither a Customer Nor a Subscriber Be: Regulating the Release of User Information on the World Wide Web, 118 YALE L.J. 1945, 1945 (2009).

(13.) 717 F. Supp. 2d 965 (C.D. Cal. 2010).

(14.) Pub. L. No. 99-508, 100 Stat. 1848 (1986).

(15.) See Orin S. Kerr, A User's Guide to the Stored Communications Act, and a Legislator's Guide to Amending It, 72 GEO. WASH. L. REV. 1208, 1210-12 (2004). The Fourth Amendment does not apply to information revealed to third parties or information held by private parties, which would allow many Internet providers to disclose their users' content without violating existing protections.

(16.) S. Rep. No. 99-541, at 3 (1986), reprinted in 1986 U.S.C.C.A.N. 3557.

(17.) Tim Berners-Lee invented the World Wide Web in 1989. See Tim Berners-Lee, WORLD WIDE WEB CONSORTIUM, http://www.w3.org/People/Berners-Lee/ (last visited May 6, 2011). SixDegrees.com, the first online social network, launched in 1997. See danah m. boyd & Nicole B. Ellison, Social Network Sites: Definition, History, and Scholarship, J. COMPUTER-MEDIATED Comm., Oct. 2007, available at http://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol13/issue1/boyd.ellison.html.

(18.) See S. Rep. No. 99-541, at 8-9 (1986), reprinted in 1986 U.S.C.C.A.N. 3562-63 (describing "some of the new telecommunications and computer technologies referred to in the [ECPA]").

(19.) See, e.g., Konop v. Hawaiian Airlines, Inc., 302 F.3d 868, 874 (9th Cir. 2002) ("Courts have struggled to analyze problems involving modern technology within the confines of this statutory framework, often with unsatisfying results.").

(20.) Kerr, supra note 15, at 1212; see also 18 U.S.C. [section] 2703 (2006 & Supp. III 2009).

(21.) See 18 U.S.C. [section] 2703.

(22.) Id.

(23.) See Crispin v. Christian Audigier, Inc., 717 F. Supp. 2d 965, 986-87 (C.D. Cal. 2010).

(24.) See Wesley Coll. v. Pitts, 974 F. Supp. 375, 389 (D. Del. 1997) ("[A] person who does not provide an electronic communication service ... can disclose or use with impunity the contents of an electronic communication unlawfully obtained from electronic storage.").

(25.) 18 U.S.C. [section] 2510(15) (2006).

(26.) Id. [section] 2510(12). The statute includes four minor exceptions to this definition, which are not relevant to this Note.

(27.) See Kerr, supra note 15, at 1213.

(28.) 18 U.S.C. [section] 2711(2) (2010).

(29.) Kerr, supra note 15, at 1230. Kerr believes the SCA's "legislative history indicates that 'processing services' refer to outsourcing functions," although he recognizes that a literal reading of the statute could include any provider that "processes information sent to it." Id.

(30.) Id. at 1213-14. According to Kerr, "[t]his was in the era before spreadsheet programs, so users generally needed to outsource tasks to perform what by today's standards are simple number-crunching jobs." Id. at 1214.

(31.) Id. at 1226; see also 18 U.S.C. [section] 2702(a) (2006) (restricting only ECS and RCS providers who offer their services "to the public").

(32.) Kerr, supra note 15, at 1226. Services that are only available to employees or students are examples of nonpublic services. Kerr speculates that the SCA distinguishes between public and nonpublic services for two reasons. First, users expect more privacy on services that are open to the public. Second, as compared to public providers, corporations that provide non-public accounts have less of an incentive to protect users' privacy. Thus, the law forces them to provide this protection. Id. at 1226-27.

(33.) See 18 U.S.C. [section][section] 2702-03 (2006 & Supp. III 2009). The line between voluntary and compelled disclosure can be difficult to classify, but this responsibility is left to the courts. See Kerr, supra note 15, at 1225.

(34.) See generally 18 U.S.C. [section][section] 2702(b), 2703(d). Information can be voluntarily disclosed, for example, "with the lawful consent of the originator or an addressee or intended recipient." Id. [section] 2702(b)(3).

(35.) See id. [section] 2703(a)-(c). See also Kerr, supra note 15, at 1223. Kerr includes a helpful chart that details the requirements for a party to obtain different types of content from ECS or RCS providers. Civil discovery subpoenas may be insufficient to obtain even basic subscriber information. See Fed. Trade Comm'n v. Netscape Commc'ns Corp., 196 F.R.D. 559, 561 (N.D. Cal. 2000) ("The court cannot believe that Congress intended the phrase 'trial subpoena' to apply to discovery subpoenas in civil cases....").

(36.) See 18 U.S.C. [section][section] 2702(b), 2703(a)-(b).

(37.) 18 U.S.C. [section] 2510(8) (2006).

(38.) See Kerr, supra note 15, at 1228.

(39.) 18 U.S.C. [section] 2702(a)(1).

(40.) Id. [section] 2510(17)(A).

(41.) See, e.g., United States v. Councilman, 418 F.3d 67, 81 (1st Cir. 2005) (en banc) ("The first category, which is relevant here, refers to temporary storage, such as when a message sits in an e-mail user's mailbox after transmission but before the user has retrieved the message from the mail server."); Theofel v. Farey-Jones, 359 F.3d 1066, 1075 (9th Cir. 2004) ("Several courts have held that subsection (A) covers e-mail messages stored on an ISP's server pending delivery to the recipient.").

(42.) 18 U.S.C. [section] 2510(17)(B).

(43.) Fraser v. Nationwide Mut. Ins. Co., 352 F.3d 107, 114 (3d Cir. 2003).

(44.) See, e.g., Crispin v. Christian Audigier, Inc., 717 F. Supp. 2d 965, 989 (C.D. Cal. 2010) (holding that some postings to social networks are stored for backup purposes).

(45.) 18 U.S.C. [section] 2702(a)(2)(B) (2006 & Supp. II 2008). This prohibition does not apply if the RCS provider is "authorized to access the contents of any such communications for purposes of providing any services other than storage or computer processing." Id.

(46.) See boyd & Ellison, supra note 17.

(47.) See Kerr, supra note 15 at 1213-14 (explaining that spreadsheet programs and other basic software can perform basic number-crunching services that the SCA was intended to cover).

(48.) Crispin v. Christian Audigier, Inc., 717 F. Supp. 2d 965, 968 (C.D. Cal. 2010).

(49.) Id. at 968 n.3.

(50.) Id. at 968-69. The defendants' request included "Crispin's basic subscriber information, as well as all communications between Crispin and tattoo artist Bryan Callan, and all communications that referred or related to Audigier, CAI, the Ed Hardy brand, or any of the sublicensee defendants." Id. at 969.

(51.) Id. at 969.

(52.) Order re Plaintiff's Motion to Quash Defendant's Third Party Subpoenas at 7, Crispin, 717 F. Supp. 2d 965 (No. 2:09-CV-09509).

(53.) Id. at 8.

(54.) Id. (quoting Judge McDermott).

(55.) Crispin, 717 F. Supp. 2d at 970.

(56.) Id. at 980.

(57.) Id.

(58.) Id.

(59.) Id. at 977.

(60.) In a footnote, the Crispin court notes that the parties disagree about whether the companies are providers or users of "the ability to send or receive electronic communications." Defendants cited three cases that found that services with the goal of buying and selling books, gold, and travel services were not providers, but rather "merely use[d] the internet to sell goods or services." Id. at 982 n.35 (quoting Inventory Locator Serv., LLC v. Partsbase, Inc., No. 02-2695 MA/V, 2005 WL 2179185, at *24 (W.D. Tenn. Sept. 6, 2005)). The court rejected this argument for social networks, noting that the goal of these services is to enable and "provide an electronic venue to communicate." Id.

(61.) Quon v. Arch Wireless Operating Co., 529 F.3d 892, 902 (9th Cir. 2008) (quoting Theofel v. Farey-Jones, 359 F.3d 1066, 1075 (9th Cir. 2004)), rev'd on other grounds, City of Ontario, Cal. v. Quon, 130 S.Ct. 2619 (2010).

(62.) United States v. Weaver, 636 F. Supp. 2d 769, 772 (C.D. Ill. 2009).

(63.) Crispin, 717 F. Supp. 2d at 981-82.

(64.) Id. at 983 ("The Ninth Circuit agrees that 'subsection (A) applies only to messages in "temporary, intermediate storage,"' and has 'limited that subsection's coverage' to messages not yet delivered to their intended recipient." (citing Theofel, 359 F.3d at 1075)). See generally 18 U.S.C. [section] 2510(17)(A) (2006).

(65.) Crispin, 717 F. Supp. 2d at 987.

(66.) Id. at 985-86.

(67.) See id. at 985 (citing Weaver, 636 F. Supp. 2d at 772).

(68.) 18 U.S.C. [section] 2510(17)(B).

(69.) Crispin, 717 F. Supp. 2d at 985 (quoting Weaver, 636 F. Supp. 2d at 772).

(70.) Id.

(71.) Theofel v. Farey-Jones, 359 F.3d 1066 (9th Cir. 2004).

(72.) Crispin, 717 F. Supp. 2d at 987.

(73.) See Theofel, 359 F.3d at 1076 (noting that "remote computing services and electronic communications services are 'often the same entities'").

(74.) See Flagg v. City of Detroit, 252 F.R.D. 346, 362-63 (E.D. Mich. 2008).

(75.) See, e.g., Kerr, supra note 15, at 1216 ("If Jane chooses to store the e-mail with the ISP, the ISP now acts as a provider of RCS (and not ECS) with respect to that copy of the email so long as the ISP is available to the public.").

(76.) See Matthew A. Goldberg, Comment, The Googling of Online Privacy: Gmail, Search-Engine Histories and the New Frontier of Protecting Private Information on the Web, 9 LEWIS & CLARK L. REV. 249, 268 (2005) (noting that web-based e-mail providers seem to qualify as ECS providers).

(77.) Theofel, 359 F.3d at 1077. It is unclear whether Theofel is still controlling after Quon v. Arch Wireless Operating Co., Inc., which held that messages which were archived by an ECS provider were not "permanent storage" and therefore met the definition of "backup protection" under 18 U.S.C. [section] 2510(17)(B). See Crispin, 717 F. Supp. 2d at 984 (citing Quon v. Arch Wireless Operating Co., Inc., 529 F.3d 892, 902-03 (9th Cir. 2008), rev'd on other grounds, City of Ontario, Cal. v. Quon, 130 S.Ct. 2619 (2010)). This is especially true for services (like Facebook) that allow users to download their content, including private messages. See Paul Boutin, Facebook Now Lets You Take Your Data With You, GADGETWISE (Oct. 6, 2010, 6:19 PM), http://gadgetwise.blogs.nytimes.com/2010/10/06/facebook-now-lets-you-take-your-data-with-you.

(78.) See Crispin, 717 F. Supp. 2d at 985. Although the court focused on Facebook Wall posts and Myspace Comments, the same logic could be applied to all non-private content on social networks, including uploaded photographs and status updates.

(79.) See S. REP. NO. 99-541, at 36 (1986), reprinted in 1986 U.S.C.C.A.N. 3555, 3590 ("The bill does not, for example, hinder the development or use of 'electronic bulletin boards' or other similar services ....").

(80.) Crispin, 717 F. Supp. 2d at 989-90.

(81.) Id. at 989.

(82.) See Konop v. Hawaiian Airlines, Inc., 302 F.3d 868, 875 (9th Cir. 2002) ("The legislative history of the [SCA] suggests that Congress wanted to protect electronic communications that are configured to be private, such as email and private electronic bulletin boards."); Kaufman v. Nest Seekers, LLC, No. 05 CV 6782(GBD), 2006 WL 2807177, at *5 (S.D.N.Y. Sept. 26, 2006) ("An electronic bulletin board fits within the definition of an electronic communication service provider.").

(83.) Konop, 302 F.3d at 879.

(84.) Crispin, 717 F. Supp. 2d at 989.

(85.) Id. at 981.

(86.) Id. at 988 (quoting Snow v. DIRECTV, Inc., No. 2:04-CV-515FTM33SPC, 2005 WL 1226158, at *3 (M.D. Fla. May 9, 2005)).

(87.) See 18 U.S.C. [section] 2510(17)(B) (2006).

(88.) Crispin, 717 F. Supp. 2d at 989 n.50.

(89.) Id. (quoting Konop v. Hawaiian Airlines, Inc., 302 F.3d 868, 887 (9th Cir. 2002) (Reinhardt, J., concurring) (noting that Congress intended that read e-mail messages be protected as backup copies)).

(90.) Id. at 990.

(91.) Viacom Int'l Inc. v. YouTube Inc., 253 F.R.D. 256, 264 n.8 (S.D.N.Y. 2008).

(92.) Crispin, 717 F. Supp. 2d at 990.

(93.) Id.

(94.) Id.

(95.) See id. at 981 (citing Konop v. Hawaiian Airlines, Inc., 302 F.3d 868, 875 (9th Cir. 2002)).

(96.) See id. YouTube users can mark their videos as private so they "can only be viewed by others authorized by the user who posted ... them." YouTube, 253 F.R.D. at 264. Facebook users can restrict their profiles, thereby controlling what kind of information is made available to different Facebook Friends and the public at large. See Facebook's Privacy Policy, FACEBOOK, http://www.facebook.com/policy.php (last updated Dec. 22, 2010).

(97.) Crispin, 717 F. Supp. 2d at 991.

(98.) Id. at 987.

(99.) Ledbetter v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., No. 06-cv-01958-WYD-MJW, 2009 WL 1067018, at *1 (D. Colo. Apr. 21, 2009).

(100.) Id.

(101.) Plaintiffs' Motion for Protective Order Pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(c) Regarding Subpoenas Issued to Facebook, My Space, Inc. and Meetup.com at 5, Ledbetter, 2009 WL 1067018 (No. 01-958).

(102.) Id. An "IP log" stores data on requests made from an IP address. If the social network maintains an IP log, "[i]t is ... possible to track and correlate all the web searches originating from a single IP address." Article 29 Data Protection Working Group, Opinion 1/2008 on Data Protection Issues Related to Search Engines, 6, 00737/EN WP 148 (April 4, 2008).

(103.) Plaintiffs' Motion for Protective Order Pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(c) Regarding Subpoenas Issued to Facebook, My Space, Inc. and Meetup.com, supra note 101, at 5-6.

(104.) Id. at 8.

(105.) Id. at 12.

(106.) Ledbetter, 2009 WL 1067018, at *2.

(107.) Because the plaintiffs did not raise the SCA as a defense to the defendant's subpoena, the court would have had to raise the issue sui sponte. See generally Plaintiffs' Motion for Protective Order Pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(c) Regarding Subpoenas Issued to Facebook, My Space, Inc. and Meetup.com, supra note 101.

(108.) Defendant Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.'s Motion to Compel Production of Content of Social Networking Sites at [paragraph] 8, Ledbetter, 2009 WL 1067018 (No. 106CV01958), 2009 WL 3061763

(109.) See Plaintiffs' Motion for Protective Order Pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(c) Regarding Subpoenas Issued to Facebook, MySpace, Inc. and Meetup.com, supra note 101, at 5.

(110.) FED. R. CIV. P. 26(b)(1).

(111.) Romano v. Steelcase Inc., 907 N.Y.S.2d 650 (Sup. Ct. 2010).

(112.) See Brian Grow, In U.S. Courts, Facebook Posts Become Less Private, REUTERS (Jan. 27, 2011, 2:40 PM), http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/01/27/us-facebook-privacy-idUSTRE70Q7EG20110127.

(113.) Romano, 907 N.Y.S.2d at 657.

(114.) Id. at 651-52.

(115.) Id. at 652. New York trial courts are given broad discretion to decide whether requested information is "material or necessary." Id.

(116.) Id. (quoting Twenty Four Hour Fuel Oil Corp. v. Hunter Ambulance Inc., 640 N.Y.S.2d 114, 114 (App. Div. 1996)). Requested information need not be directly admissible at trial to be discoverable. Id. This is similar to the federal rule. Cf. FED R. CIV. P. 26(b)(1) ("Relevant information need not be admissible at the trial if the discovery appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.").

(117.) Romano, 907 N.Y.S.2d at 654.

(118.) Id.

(119.) Id. at 654-55.

(120.) Id. at 655.

(121.) United States v. Lifshitz, 369 F.3d 173, 190 (2d Cir. 2004) (cited in Romano, 907 N.Y.S.2d at 656).

(122.) Romano, 907 N.Y.S.2d at 656 (citing Order Denying 65 Motion for Reconsideration, Beye v. Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of N.J., 568 F. Supp. 2d 556, (D.N.J. Dec. 14, 2007) (No. 06-5337)); Moreno v. Hanford Sentinel, Inc., 172 Cal. App. 4th 1125, 1130 (2009); Dexter v. Dexter, No. 2006-P-0051, 2007 WL 1532084, at *6 n.4 (Ohio Ct. App. May 25, 2007)).

(123.) Id.

(124.) Id. at 656-57.

(125.) Id. at 657.

(126.) See, e.g., Kashmir Hill, Do Your Social Networking Privacy Settings Matter If You Get Sued?, THE NOT-SO PRIVATE PARTS (Sept. 27, 2010, 4:01 PM), http://blogs.forbes.com/kashmirhill/2010/09/27/do-your-social-networking-privacy-settingsmatter-if-you-get-sued (contrasting the opinion with the Crispin court's holding); Venkat, Comment to Deleted Facebook and MySpace Posts Are Discoverable--Romano v. Steelcase, TECH. & MARKETING L. BLOG (Sept. 29, 2010, 8:46 PM), http://blog.ericgoldman.org/archives/2010/09/deleted_faceboo.htm (criticizing the court's privacy holding); Robin Wilton, Do You Know Jeffrey Arlen Spinner?, GARTNER (Oct. 1, 2010), http://blogs.gartner.com/robin-wilton/2010/10/01/do-you-know-jeffrey-arlen-spinner (same).

(127.) See FED. R. CIV. PROC. 26(b)(1) ("[p]arties may obtain discovery regarding any nonprivileged matter that is relevant to any party's claim or defense").

(128.) Romano, 907 N.Y.S.2d at 652.

(129.) If a single photograph allows defendant to access an entire social network account because it "may lead to the disclosure of admissible proof," id. (quoting Twenty Four Hour Fuel Oil Corp. v. Hunter Ambulance Inc., 640 N.Y.S. 2d 114, 114 (App. Div. 1996)), there is seemingly no limit to what may be discovered.

(130.) Id. at 651-52 ("The Court has reviewed ... the Stored Communications Act, which prohibits an entity, such as Facebook and MySpace from disclosing such information without the consent of the owner of the account.").

(131.) Id. at 654-55.

(132.) Id. at 656 (quoting Facebook Privacy Policy (effective Nov. 26, 2008) (replaced by Dec. 22, 2010 Privacy Policy)).

(133.) The current language in Facebook's Privacy Policy further clarifies this intent, which reads:


   We cannot ensure that information you share on Facebook will not
   become publicly available. We are not responsible for third party
   circumvention of any privacy settings or security measures on
   Facebook. You can reduce these risks by using common sense security
   practices such as choosing a strong password, using different
   passwords for different services, and using up to date antivirus
   software.


Facebook's Privacy Policy, supra note 96.

(134.) Silverman v. United States, 365 U.S. 505, 511 (1961) (a core protection of the Fourth Amendment is "the right of a man to retreat into his own home and there be free from unreasonable governmental intrusion").

(135.) See Order, Beye v. Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of N.J., 568 F. Supp. 2d 556, (D.N.J. Dec. 14, 2007) (No. 06-5337)) (excluding MySpace writings that were not shared with others); Moreno v. Hanford Sentinel Inc., 172 Cal. App. 4th 1125, 1130 (2009) (no expectation of privacy for MySpace writings available to the public); Dexter v. Dexter, No. 2006-P-0051, 2007 WL 1532084, at *6 n.4 (Ohio Ct. App. May 25, 2007) (same). None of the cases cited involved writings that were only viewable by a limited number of users.

(136.) This is especially true for personal injury cases. See Andrew S. Kaufman, Social Networks in Personal Injury Litigation, New York L.J. (Dec. 17, 2010), http://www.law.com/jsp/lawtechnologynews/PubArticleLTN.jsp?id=1202476307983 ("Social network profiles are a fertile source of information concerning a litigant's physical and emotional condition and recent activities.").

(137.) While this framework is written with federal courts in mind, state courts can apply the same two steps by adjusting the admissibility inquiry to capture any differences in the state's evidentiary rules.

(138.) FED R. CIV. P. 26(b)(1).

(139.) See, e.g., Crispin v. Christian Audigier, Inc., 717 F. Supp. 2d 965, 969-70 (C.D. Cal. 2010) (describing the magistrate judge's order, which dismissed plaintiff's SCA claims before addressing "overbreadth and privacy arguments"); Romano v. Steelcase Inc., 907 N.Y.S.2d 650 (Sup. Ct. 2010) (acknowledging and then ignoring plaintiff's SCA defense before analyzing the materiality and necessity of defendant's request).

(140.) FED. R. CIV. P. 26(b)(1).

(141.) See, e.g., Groom v. Standard Ins. Co., 492 F. Supp. 2d 1202, 1205 (C.D. Cal. 2007) ("discovery must be narrowly tailored and cannot be a fishing expedition").

(142.) This is certainly true for the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. THOMAS R. VAN DERVORT, AMERICAN LAW AND THE LEGAL SYSTEM: EQUAL JUSTICE UNDER THE LAW 136 (2d ed. 2000). State rules are often analogous to the federal rules but must be analyzed on a case-by-case basis

(143.) Crispin v. Christian Audigier, Inc., 717 F. Supp. 2d 965, 968-69 (C.D. Cal. 2010).

(144.) See Joint Stipulation re: Notice of Motion and Motion to Quash Defendant's Subpoenas, or in the Alternative, for a Protective Order; Declaration of Regina Y. Yeh Esq. in support thereof at 13, Crispin, 717 F. Supp. 2d 965 (No. 2:09-CV-09509).

(145.) Order re Plaintiff's Motion to Quash Defendant's Third Party Subpoenas, supra note 52, at 10.

(146.) Id.

(147.) Id.

(148.) McCann v. Harleysville Ins. Co. of N.Y., 910 N.Y.S.2d 614 (App. Div. 2010).

(149.) Id. at 615.

(150.) See id.

(151.) Id.

(152.) See id.

(153.) Id.

(154.) See 18 U.S.C. [section] 2703 (2006 & Supp. III 2009); see generally Fed. R. Civ. P. 34 (governing discovery requests on any other party in federal cases). To obtain complete and accurate social network records, it may be necessary to request this information directly from the social network. See Stephenson, supra note 5 (noting that it is unlikely that "individuals have the technological capacity to do more than provide a paper printout from the [social network] site").

(155.) See 18 U.S.C. [section] 2511(2)(g) (2006 & Supp. II 2008). The term "readily accessible to the general public" is only defined in relation to radio communication, 18 U.S.C. [section] 2510(16) (2006), but the Crispin court applied it to social networks by analogizing to BBSes. Crispin v. Christian Audigier, Inc., 717 F. Supp. 2d 965, 981-82 (C.D. Cal. 2010). If the requested content is accessible to the general public, lawyers can obtain this information either by serving a subpoena on the social network or simply obtaining the information directly. It is possible that social networks could refuse to comply with subpoenas in these cases, arguing that producing information that is publicly available on their website is an undue burden. See FED. R. CIV. P. 26(b)(2)(C)(i) ("[T]he court must limit the frequency or extent of discovery otherwise allowed by these rules ... if it determines that ... the discovery sought ... can be obtained from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive ...."). At the time of publication, no court had ever addressed this defense.

(156.) Of course, the social network must still meet the other requirements of the SCA. For instance, they must either be RCS or ECS providers.

(157.) In Crispin, Judge Morrow remanded this issue to the magistrate court. Crispin v. Christian Audigier, Inc., 717 F. Supp. 2d 965, 991 (C.D. Cal. 2010).

(158.) The Crispin court recognized the problem of over-inclusion, arguing that "basing a rule on the number of users who can access information would result in arbitrary line-drawing and likely in the anomalous result that businesses such as law firms, which may have thousands of employees who can access documents in storage, would be excluded from the statute." Id. at 990.

(159.) MERRIAM WEBSTER ONLINE, http://www.m-w.com (last visited May 6, 2011) (defining "public").

(160.) The default privacy setting for most Facebook information, including your "name, profile picture, and connections" is "everyone." Facebook's Privacy Policy, supra note 96. This information is publicly available and can "be accessed by everyone on the Internet (including people not logged into Facebook), be indexed by third party search engines, and be imported, exported, distributed, and redistributed by us and others without privacy limitations." Id. It is worth noting that content available to everyone in a "Facebook network" is considered private under this framework unless that information is also available to all Facebook users.

(161.) Protected Tweets are only viewable by your Twitter contacts. Additionally, these Tweets cannot be shared using "Retweet," a feature that allows users to share Tweets created by other Twitter users. See Why Can't I Retweet Certain Tweets?, TWITTER HELP CENTER, http://support.twitter.com/entries/91886-why-can-t-i-retweet-certain-tweets (last visited May 6, 2011).

(162.) S. REP. NO. 99-541, at 35 (1986), reprinted in 1986 U.S.C.C.A.N. 3555, 3589 ("This provision addresses the growing problem of unauthorized persons deliberately gaining access to ... electronic or wire communications that are not intended to be available to the public.").

(163.) See supra Part IV.

(164.) See supra Part II.A.

(165.) S. Rep. No. 99-541, at 5 (1986), reprinted in 1986 U.S.C.C.A.N. 3555, 3359.

(166.) Gleicher, supra note 12, at 1945.

(167.) See Crispin v. Christian Audigier, Inc., 717 F. Supp. 2d 965, 979-80 (C.D. Cal. 2010).

(168.) Courts should not limit RCS protections to services that existed in 1986, which did not include backup storage. See supra note 47 and accompanying text.

(169.) See Crispin, 717 F. Supp. 2d at 989-90.

(170.) See id. at 990.

(171.) 18 U.S.C. [section] 2510(17)(B) (2006).

(172.) Compare id. with 18 U.S.C. [section] 2702(a)(2)(B) (2006 & Supp. II 2008).

(173.) See Crispin, 717 F. Supp. 2d at 989 n.50.

(174.) See 18 U.S.C. [section] 2703(a)-(b) (2006 & Supp. III 2009).

(175.) See id. [section][section] 2702(b)(3), (c)(2).

(176.) See, e.g., Romano v. Steelcase Inc., 907 N.Y.S.2d 650, 657 (Sup. Ct. 2010) (requiring plaintiff to deliver "a properly executed consent and authorization" to Facebook and MySpace); Minute Order, Ledbetter v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., No. 06-cv-01958-WYD-MJW, 2009 WL 1067018 (D. Colo. Apr. 21, 2009) (No. 01-958, 2009) (compelling plaintiff to execute consents); see also O'Grady v. Superior Court of Santa Clara Cnty., 139 Cal. App. 4th 1423, 1446 (2006) (recognizing that "[w]here a party to the communication is also a party to the litigation, it would seem within the power of a court to require his consent to disclosure on pain of discovery sanctions").

(177.) Cf. Kerr, supra note 15, at 1235-38 (providing recommendations to simplify the SCA).

(178.) See Robison, supra note 10, at 1204-05.

Ryan A. Ward, Harvard Law School, Candidate for J.D., 2011. I would like to thank Trade Bryant and the editors of the Harvard Journal of Law & Technology for their tireless work on this Note. Thanks also to Professor Frederic Bloom for his helpful comments on early drafts and his guidance throughout law school.

Document HJLAT00020180228e73m00047



News
Call on Walmart to ‘buy local’

LINDA ENSOR With Michael Bleby      
512 words
22 March 2011
Business Day
MEWBUD
Business Day
English
Copyright 2011.    Business Day.      

LINDA ENSOR

Political Correspondent

CAPE TOWN — The Department of Trade and Industry has conceded that the government’s demand for US retailer Walmart to agree to source much of its merchandise locally could be & potentially discriminating& but says this is an important issue for SA.

Acting director-general Lionel October made the concession when grilled by Democratic Alliance (DA) spokesman on trade and industry Tim Harris during a briefing on the department’s strategic plan for 2011-14 on Friday. Walmart’s proposed acquisition of Massmart has been approved by the Competition Commission and will be before the Competition Tribunal this week.

The hearings, originally scheduled to take three days, have been extended and will continue into Friday to take into account the number of organisations — including four trade unions and a forum representing small businesses — seeking to make submissions.

Mr October said the trade and industry and economic development departments did not want to block Walmart’s entrance into the South African market but would be requesting the tribunal to insist that Walmart voluntarily agree to local sourcing as a matter of & public interest& They were trying to expand the definition of public interest in the Competition Act.

& We are obviously entering a new area of competition law. We don’t think it is possible to set in law limits on what retailers can import as it is the nature of their business to trade, but you can enter into agreements, as happened in the clothing industry. It is possible to create mechanisms to incentivise domestic procurement,& Mr October said.

But Mr Harris said forcing Walmart to source locally would set a dangerous precedent.

& If their proposal is accepted it will put that company at a distinct disadvantage to other retailers who will be free to behave as they wish. The DA is not opposed to measures to incentivise local procurement, but such interventions must not discriminate against individual companies or sectors.

& Any interventions must aim to ‘tilt the playing field’ instead of intervening directly in the affairs of individual companies.& Trade and industry’s representations to the tribunal had to be balanced, with an analysis of the benefits the investment would have for SA in terms of driving down prices and inflation.

& In addition, any suggestion that Walmart will flout our labour laws must be rejected out of hand. We simply have to be able to enforce the laws of our land.& Mr October said Walmart had contributed to the shrinkage of the US’s industrial base because it imported nearly all its merchandise from China. If this pattern was repeated in SA, it would cause problems for the economy.

Walmart might create many jobs in its own operation while destroying thousands of others by shifting the source of its supplies. Other retailers would be forced to follow suit, as happened when Mr Price entered the market, he said. With Michael Bleby

ensorl@bdfm.co.za

Document MEWBUD0020110322e73m0000v



TIMELINE-Chronology of Wal-Mart discrimination  case

374 words
22 March 2011
01:08 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

WASHINGTON, March 22 (Reuters) - The U.S. Supreme Court hears arguments on March 29 in the largest sex-discrimination class-action lawsuit ever as Wal-Mart Stores Inc's female employees seek billions of dollars from the giant retailer.

Here is a chronology of key events in the case:

June 19, 2001: Betty Dukes, a Wal-Mart greeter at a store in Pittsburg, California, and five current or former female employees file a lawsuit in federal court in San Francisco, accusing the retailer of discriminating against its female employees by paying them less than men and giving them fewer promotions.

April 28, 2003: Attorneys for the women filed a motion for class certification and asked the judge to rule the case can go to trial on behalf of all women who worked for Wal-Mart in the United States at any time since Dec. 26, 1998, a group believed to exceed 1.5 million current and former female employees.

June 21, 2004: U.S. District Judge Martin Jenkins ruled the lawsuit can proceed as a nationwide class covering the women who worked at 3,400 stores, but did not decide the merits of the lawsuit.

He proposed a two-stage trial. First, the court would decide if Wal-Mart was liable for intentional sex discrimination. Depending on the verdict, the second stage would decide remedies, such as back pay, punitive damages and injunctive relief requiring pay and promotion changes.

April 26, 2010: A U.S. appeals court based in San Francisco, by a 6-5 vote, upheld the judge's conclusion that it would be better to handle the case as a single group rather than requiring individual lawsuits to be litigated.

Aug. 25, 2010: Wal-Mart appealed to the Supreme Court. It argued claims involving current and former workers, hourly employees and salaried managers and stores across the country were too different to proceed as one class-action lawsuit.

Dec. 6, 2010: The Supreme Court said it would decide whether the class-action certification violated federal rules for such lawsuits, one of the most important employment discrimination class-action cases in decades.

(Reporting by James Vicini, Editing by John Whitesides)

WALMART-LAWSUIT/ (TIMELINE)      

Document LBA0000020110322e73m0014l



SCENARIOS-Wal-Mart sex    discrimination  case at US top court

By James Vicini      
880 words
22 March 2011
01:07 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

WASHINGTON, March 22 (Reuters) - The largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit ever will be argued before the U.S. Supreme Court on March 29, pitting Wal-Mart Stores Inc against female employees who seek billions of dollars.

The justices will decide whether the small group of women who began the case 10 years ago can represent a huge nationwide class of potentially millions of current and former employees who accuse the world's largest retailer of discrimination.

However, the nation's high court will not be deciding whether Wal-Mart engaged in intentional sex discrimination in pay and promotions at 3,400 U.S. stores since the end of 1998.

An eventual Supreme Court ruling, expected by late June, is likely to uphold or undo the class certification, a decision that could determine whether the lawsuit proceeds to trial.

Here are some scenarios of what could happen next:

SUPREME COURT UPHOLDS LAWSUIT'S CLASS-ACTION STATUS

In a defeat for Wal-Mart, the case would go back to the federal judge in San Francisco, who has already proposed a two-stage trial.

In the first stage, a judge or a jury would decide whether Wal-Mart should be found liable for a pattern of intentional sex discrimination.

The second phase would decide potential remedies such as punitive damages; back pay, which makes up the difference between actual pay and the amount if there had been no discrimination; and injunctive relief, such as requiring Wal-Mart to change its pay and promotion systems.

Alexandra Lahav, a University of Connecticut law professor, wrote in a recent law review article that the case does not threaten a potential ruinous verdict for Wal-Mart.

Wal-Mart's attorney, Theodore Boutrous, told the Supreme Court the class involved potentially millions of women with claims for billions of dollars in back pay and possible punitive damages.

Attorneys for the women did not give a total figure, but said individual claims for back pay would be small, an average of $1,100 per year for hourly workers.

Chris Graja, an Argus Research analyst who follows Wal-Mart, has said the case will keep the retailer in the spotlight.

The lawsuit "remains a major financial risk for Wal-Mart but we believe the potential expenses have been well reported on Wall Street and in the media," he wrote in a February report when Wal-Mart issued its fourth-quarter results.

"The company continues to contest the claims and the legal proceedings related to those claims very aggressively. The recent settlement of another group of suits suggests that the company is well aware of the importance of being a good citizen and trying to look forward," Graja said.

R.J. Hottovy, equity analyst at the Chicago-based Morningstar Inc investment research company, said Wal-Mart has plenty of cash if it needed to make a payout.

"It would take a seismic ruling against the company to have an impact on the valuation," he said. "When you're dealing with the largest company out there, a lawsuit would have to be one of the larger payouts to really have a material impact on the fundamentals of the business."

He calculated that even in the unlikely event that there was eventually a $25 billion award against Wal-Mart, that would not dramatically affect Morningstar's valuation of the firm.

SUPREME COURT REJECTS LAWSUIT'S CLASS-ACTION STATUS

The Supreme Court could reverse the appeals court's ruling and send the case back with instructions to decertify the class, as Wal-Mart has requested.

But the case would not be over. Individual plaintiffs who brought the lawsuit, such as Betty Dukes, a Wal-Mart greeter at a store in Pittsburg, California, could pursue their claims.

Depending on how the court rules, the plaintiffs might be allowed to collectively pursue their claims for an injunction changing employment practices, but not for money damages.

Or the court could rule the case was wrongly certified as a class action under a provision mainly used in lawsuits seeking relief such as an injunction. The court could tell the judge to consider if it can be certified under another part of the law dealing mainly with money damages.

POSSIBLE SETTLEMENT?

Lurking in the background is a possible settlement.

Boutrous, the attorney who will argue Wal-Mart's case, declined to speculate on a possible settlement if the company lost before the Supreme Court. An attorney for the plaintiffs also declined comment on any settlement.

Asked if there could be a deal, equity analyst Hottovy said, "That's always a possibility, especially in a case like this where instead of dragging it out over a long period of time it may be in Wal-Mart's favor to propose a settlement."

Wal-Mart's corporate supporters have said huge class-action lawsuits put inappropriate pressure on defendants to settle.

But attorneys for the female employees disagreed. "With over $400 billion in sales and $14 billion in profits last year, that is an argument that could not be credibly made," they said in a brief filed with the court.

(Additional reporting by Jessica Wohl in Chicago, Editing by John Whitesides)

WALMART-LAWSUIT/ (SCENARIOS)      

Document LBA0000020110322e73m0014i



FACTBOX-Key facts in Wal-Mart discrimination  case

380 words
22 March 2011
01:06 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

March 22 (Reuters) - The U.S. Supreme Court hears arguments on March 29 in the largest sex-discrimination class-action lawsuit ever as Wal-Mart Stores Inc's female employees seek billions of dollars from the giant retailer.

Here are some key facts and allegations that have emerged during the 10-year-old lawsuit.

* A Wal-Mart senior human resources official saw nothing wrong with business meetings at Hooters restaurants, known for its buxom waitresses, lawyers for the plaintiffs said. Numerous Wal-Mart managers admitted they regularly went to strip clubs when attending company management meetings.

Theodore Boutrous, Wal-Mart's lead attorney in the appeal, dismissed such anecdotes as misleading and said they do not reflect company policy. "It's so far from being representative that it's absurd," he told reporters.

* One woman who brought the lawsuit, Christine Kwapnoski, said a male manager "told her to 'doll up,' wear some makeup and to dress a little better." She said he frequently yelled and screamed at her and other female employees, but seldom did that with male employees.

* Wal-Mart said it operated under a general policy that forbids discrimination, encourages diversity and ensures fair treatment. Founded in 1962 and with its headquarters in Bentonville, Arkansas, the retailer employs more than 1.4 million people in the United States, the nation's largest private employer. Wal-Mart had about $419 billion in net sales last year and reported $16.4 billion in net income.

* Founder Sam Walton said in 1992 that Wal-Mart's "old way" of requiring managers to move frequently "put good, smart women at a disadvantage" and was unnecessary, but lawyers for the plaintiffs said the policy remained in effect until after the lawsuit was filed in 2001.

* Wal-Mart said its expert concluded that more than 90 percent of its stores showed no statistical difference in hourly pay rates between men and women with similar jobs.

* The federal judge in San Francisco who originally granted class-action status for the lawsuit was U.S. District Court Judge Martin Jenkins, who was appointed to the bench by President Bill Clinton in 1997.

(Reporting by James Vicini in Washington, Editing by Will Dunham)

WALMART-LAWSUIT/ (FACTBOX)      

Document LBA0000020110322e73m0014f



PREVIEW-Wal-Mart to argue sex-bias case in US top court

778 words
22 March 2011
01:05 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

* Wal-Mart questions fairness of huge, diverse class

* Supreme Court's ruling could affect other cases

* Clash between corporate interests, workers' rights

By James Vicini

WASHINGTON, March 22 (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc will urge the U.S. Supreme Court next week to reject the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history, brought by female employees who seek billion of dollars.

The top U.S. court hears arguments on March 29 in a lawsuit against the world's largest retailer for allegedly giving women less pay and fewer promotions at 3,400 U.S. stores since late 1998.

Lawyers for the two sides will spar over whether the small group of women who began the lawsuit 10 years ago can represent a huge nationwide class of current and former employees that could total millions of women.

The case has pitted women's and employees' rights against business interests, with Robin Conrad of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce calling it "the most important class-action case facing the court in over a decade."

The case will have far-reaching implications for working women who challenge discrimination, women's rights advocate Marcia Greenberger of the National Women's Law Center said.

"The ability of women to be treated fairly in the workplace hangs in the balance," Greenberger said.

The ruling, expected by late June, could change the legal landscape for workplace class-action lawsuits and affect many cases, including a similar one against Costco Wholesale Corp.

Large class-action lawsuits make it easier for big groups of plaintiffs to sue corporations and they have yielded huge payouts by tobacco, oil and food companies.

Companies have sought to limit such lawsuits to individual or small groups of plaintiffs.

The Supreme Court, with a conservative majority that has often ruled for businesses, has already limited large class-action securities fraud lawsuits and asbestos cases.

If Wal-Mart wins, the huge class would be undone, though the company still could face individual discrimination lawsuits. If the workers win, they would be able to pursue their lawsuit as a collective group at trial.

Legal experts and financial analysts said Wal-Mart, with more than $400 billion in sales and $16 billion in net income last year, has enough cash to make even a big payout if it loses at trial.

"It would take a seismic ruling against the company to have an impact on the valuation," said R.J. Hottovy, equity analyst at the Chicago-based Morningstar Inc investment research firm.

MANAGERS ACCUSED OF GOING STRIP CLUBS

The Wal-Mart lawsuit has produced testimony that managers held business meetings at Hooters restaurants, attended strip clubs and referred to female employees as "girls," in what plaintiffs lawyers said was a corporate culture rife with stereotypes demeaning to women.

Wal-Mart, founded in 1962 and based in Bentonville, Arkansas, has denied the allegations and said it has operated under a policy barring discrimination.

The discount retailer said the claims involving current and former female workers, hourly employees and salaried managers, and stores across the country are too different to proceed as a single class-action lawsuit.

Lawyer Theodore Boutrous, who will argue for Wal-Mart, said bundling together all the diverse claims is unfair, making it impossible for the company to defend itself.

"Class actions can be helpful for efficiency, and there's an attraction to that. But at some point, they can start chopping away rights. I think that's what happened here," Boutrous told reporters.

Jocelyn Larkin and other lawyers for the employees disagreed. They said overwhelming evidence supported the judge's decision, upheld by a U.S. appeals court, to certify the nationwide class for trial.

"Wal-Mart is attempting to dismantle the Supreme Court's employment discrimination class-action jurisprudence," Larkin said.

"Such far-reaching changes to the law would require the court to overrule 45 years of civil rights and class-action precedent. This would rule out certification of all but the smallest employment discrimination cases," Larkin said.

The Obama administration did not take a position in the dispute, even though the federal government's Equal Employment Opportunity Commission previously supported the workers.

Legal briefs filed with the Supreme Court split largely along predictable lines, with Wal-Mart supported by business groups and big corporations, including retailer Costco, tobacco company Altria Group Inc and software giant Microsoft Corp. Women's rights groups backed the employees.

The Supreme Court case is Wal-Mart Stores Inc v. Betty Dukes, No. 10-277.

(Additional reporting by Jessica Wohl in Chicago; Editing by Will Dunham)

WALMART-LAWSUIT/ (PREVIEW)      

Document LBA0000020110322e73m0014b

InsideUpdates; News
Timeline: Chronology of Wal-Mart    discrimination  case

Legal News    
177 words
22 March 2011
Inside Counsel
INCOUNS
Issue 3
English
Copyright 2011 Inside Counsel. A Summit Business Media publication. All rights reserved    

(Reuters) - The Supreme Court hears arguments on March 29 in the largest sex-discrimination class-action lawsuit ever as Wal-Mart Stores Inc's female employees seek billions of dollars from the giant retailer.

Here is a chronology of key events in the case:

June 19, 2001: Betty Dukes, a Wal-Mart greeter at a store in Pittsburg, California, and five current or former female employees file a lawsuit in federal court in San Francisco, accusing the retailer of discriminating against its female employees by paying them less than men and giving them fewer promotions.

April 28, 2003: Attorneys for the women filed a motion for class certification and asked the judge to rule the case can go to trial on behalf of all women who worked for Wal-Mart in the United States at any time since December 26, 1998, a group believed to exceed 1.5 million current and former female employees.

Read the full Reuters story, "

Timeline: Chronology of Wal-Mart  discrimination case

."

Document INCOUNS020110323e73m00004

Global Labor Coalition to Urge South African Competition Tribunal to Reject Walmart or Set Conditions and Standards

899 words
22 March 2011
Targeted News Service
TARGNS
English
Copyright 2011 Targeted News Service ALL Rights Reserved      

PRETORIA, South Africa, March 22 -- The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union issued the following news release:

South African workers, together with workers' representatives from around the globe, will assemble outside the South African government's Competition Tribunal hearings today, demanding that it protects the local economy and reject Walmart's unconditional entry into the country. Shareholders have accepted Walmart's offer to acquire a 51 percent stake in South African retailer Massmart for $3.2 billion. Walmart, with sales of more than US$405 billion in 2010, is the world's largest company, giving it substantial power to dominate the world's global supply chains, shape the local retail sector and dictate the conditions of trade to thousands of supply firms in other sectors.

"We will tell the Competition Tribunal that we believe it is not in the best interest of South Africa for Walmart to be allowed into our country. We will also outline the conditions that must apply in the event that the Tribunal believes differently and or otherwise rules that the company may enter. Those conditions must contain protections for workers, suppliers, and the wider South African community," said Bones Skulu, General Secretary of the South Africa Commercial, Catering and Allied Workers Union (SACCAWU).

The South African Government, through its Departments on Economic Development, Trade & Industry and Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, expressed great concern about the impact of the merger of the size of the proposed Walmart / Massmart transaction on employment and competition. It has demanded that binding conditions be put in place to hold Walmart accountable to the promises it is making the South African people in relation to, amongst others, trade union rights and existing collective agreements, job security, local procurement and support for small business, respect for the rule of law and non-discriminatory practices in order to ensure that the deal does not undermine the New Growth Path that is addressing the high levels of unemployment and abject poverty in the country.

"We are urging the Competition Tribunal to take the experience of workers from around the globe under advisement as they deliberate on this vital matter," said Christy Hoffman of UNI Global Union, the worldwide umbrella union representing 20 million workers. "In many of the countries where Walmart workers have union representation, the company cuts back on the rights of workers at every opportunity. In countries where Walmart was not forced to accept a union because it acquired a company without an organised workforce (such as the United States and Canada), Walmart employs severe tactics to silence workers and keep them from having a voice on the job. It is clear that if the Competition Tribunal takes the rights of Massmart's workers in particular and South African workforce in general seriously, they must set conditions now to protect those rights."

"In North America we have witnessed the devastating effect that the Walmart model has upon small businesses, suppliers, and communities," said Michael Bride of the North American United Food and Commercial Workers International Union (UFCW). "We are here today to urge the South African Competition Tribunal to place the needs of South Africa's citizens at the centre of its deliberations and ensure that if Walmart does enter the country, that it does so on a basis that will promote economic development rather than destroy it."

To demonstrate Walmart's devastating effects, SACCAWU in conjunction with the UFCW solicited written testimony from ten international economists and labour experts. This testimony was submitted to the Competition Tribunal. Three experts, Nelson Lichtenstein of the University of California, Sofia Scasserra of FAECYS Union in Argentina and Claudio Avarena of the CONATRACOPS union in Chile were invited to testify at the Tribunal.

"Walmart has employed a consistent business model of downward pressure on suppliers and workers throughout its history," said Lichtenstein. "This pressure often has a devastating effect on suppliers that sell to the company. They may see their volume go up, but their profit margins go down. Many find themselves pitted against suppliers from countries with poor labor standards such as China and Bangladesh. Ultimately, many are unable to compete and forced to either move jobs offshore or close all together."

SACCAWU, UNI and UFCW, together with the other members of the Anti-Walmart Coalition, including COSATU, are demanding that the Competition Tribunal ensure that, should Walmart be granted the opportunity to acquire Massmart, conditions are imposed on the company that serve to make its entry more sustainable for South African suppliers and workers as well as the economic growth and development.

The Competition Act of South Africa empowers the South African Competition Commission to recommend to the Competition Tribunal the blocking or setting of binding conditions on parties in a proposed merger. The commission is charged with considering public interest factors such as the effect of a possible merger on employment, small businesses, or particular industries or geographic regions. The Tribunal on the other hand has a duty and authority to decide whether or not to accept the Commission's recommendations. It is with this in mind that the Anti-Walmart Coalition expects and accordingly demands that the Tribunal acts responsibly and reject the proposed merger.

TNS mv45 110324-3303210

Jennifer Stapletone, 202/223-3111, jstapleton@ufcw.org      

Document TARGNS0020110324e73m00270

current
Class Warfare; In Wal-Mart discrimination  case, class action law faces a critical test. WASHINGTON

BY TONY MAURO AND MARCIA COYLE      
1,008 words
21 March 2011
The National Law Journal
NLJ
13
Volume 33; Issue 29
English
Copyright 2011 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

Among their hundreds of pages of dueling arguments, the companies and organizations supporting or opposing Wal-Mart in its landmark U.S. Supreme Court challenge Wal-Mart v. Dukes do agree on one point: Whatever the justices say about class action certification will resound across a wide swath of law, not just employment discrimination.

Ruling in favor of the class of female current and former Wal-Mart workers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce says, "has the potential to dramatically increase the class action exposure of the Chamber's members and all companies doing business in the United States."

But advocates on the other side say a ruling for Wal-Mart could effectively close the door on class actions as an efficient way to prosecute claims instead of hundreds or thousands of repetitive trials—especially, but not only, in civil rights cases. "If Wal-Mart has its way, it will be impossible to bring its employees fundamental paycheck fairness," said Sarah Crawford of the National Partnership for Women and Families. Her brief cites Brown v. Board of Education as a prime example of class action litigation that must be preserved.

The 29 amicus curiae briefs in the largest job discrimination case in history—15 for Wal-Mart, 14 for the class of plaintiffs—have attracted a wide array of law firms and lawyers, from Supreme Court veterans Roy Englert Jr. of Robbins, Russell, Englert, Orseck, Untereiner & Sauber, Arnold & Porter's Lisa Blatt, and Jeffrey Lamken of MoloLamken, to noted academics like Arthur Miller of New York University School of Law, to civil rights firms like Chicago's Miner, Barnhill & Galland, which once counted Barack Obama as a junior associate.

Even though the underlying lawsuit tells the story of women who work for the nation's largest retailer, the briefs are mostly devoid of personal details. Instead, they focus on the federal rules of civil procedure that govern class actions.

At issue is whether plaintiffs can use Rule 23(b)(2), which specifically provides for injunctive and other nonmonetary relief, to seek money damages, and whether the Dukes class certification was consistent with Rule 23(a) requirements, including commonality of interest within the class. When it granted review last December, the Court excluded from the case constitutional issues involving due process and the Seventh Amendment.

The giant retailer, represented by Theodore Boutrous Jr. of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, argues that the answer to both questions in the case is "no." It is supported by an array of megacompanies, such as General Electric Co., Intel Corp., Microsoft Corp. and E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., as well as by such conservative pro-business organizations as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Washington Legal Foundation and the Defense Research Institute.

The 15 amicus briefs supporting Wal-Mart tackle chunks of the retailer's main arguments, emphasizing, for example, that class certification in this case violated the Rules Enabling Act by modifying substantive rights under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the nation's major anti-job bias law. They also argue that the district court and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit erred by failing to conduct a Daubert analysis of the testimony of the plaintiffs' chief expert. More broadly, they assert that the plaintiffs fail to meet class-certification requirements of typical claims, adequate representation and common issues.

By using overall statistics and social science research, the Costco Wholesale Corp. brief argues, the Wal-Mart plaintiffs were able to "gloss over the absence of any widespread discrimination at the level where employment decisions actually occur" — individual stores. David Ross of Seyfarth Shaw wrote the brief.

The other side, led by Joseph Sellers of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll, counters all those points, arguing that apart from size, the Wal-Mart suit is a typical class action that meets all the requirements of Rule 23. "There is nothing in Rule 23 that says size matters," said John Vail of the Center for Constitutional Litigation, which filed a brief for the plaintiffs.

The plaintiffs side also rejects Wal-Mart's argument that its employment decision-making is so decentralized that the class does not meet requirements of typicality and common issues. That decentralization, the plaintiffs' amici insist, is itself a companywide policy that encourages bias and can be attacked through class actions.

One of the plaintiffs' amici also targets a theme that runs through several of the Wal-Mart briefs: that class actions like this one are intended mainly to force employers into "blackmail settlements" to avoid ruinous class action liability. A group of law and economics professors, citing empirical studies, assert that civil rights class actions are rarely filed or certified, and that the notion of "blackmail settlements" is a myth. The brief was authored by Robert Libman of Miner, Barnhill & Galland, Obama's old firm.

Missing from the lineup on either side is the solicitor general of the United States.

Arnold & Porter's Blatt, formerly an assistant to the solicitor general, noted in an amicus brief on behalf of the Retail Litigation Center supporting Wal-Mart, that the federal government has made some of the same arguments as Wal-Mart when it has opposed class certification as a defendant in Title VII and other discrimination lawsuits.

But in an interview, Blatt said the government does not file as amicus in class actions because of the tension inherent in its dual roles as enforcer of Title VII and other discrimination laws, and as the country's largest employer to whom all those laws apply. "The government clearly has an interest in the issue presented in Wal-Mart on the certification question, but it also has an interest in enforcement of Title VII," she said.

Tony Mauro can be contacted at tmauro@alm.com. Marcia Coyle can be contacted at mcoyle@alm.com      

Document NLJ0000020110328e73l0000o



WSJ UPDATE: Bayer's U.S. Healthcare Unit Sued In $100M    Discrimination  Suit

610 words
21 March 2011
12:51 PM
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.      


 
   (Updates with more details of allegations, response from Bayer.) 
 
   By Chad Bray 
   Of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL 
 

NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Six former and current employees of Bayer AG's (BAYRY, BAYN.XE) U.S. health care arm filed a $100 million gender discrimination lawsuit Monday, claiming the U.S. unit discriminates against its female employees in terms of pay and promotion, as well as pregnancy leave.

The lawsuit, filed in federal court in Newark, N.J., seeks class-action status and is asking for $100 million in back pay, damages and legal costs. It's the latest in a series of lawsuits alleging discrimination against women by major companies operating in the U.S.

(This story and related background material will be available on The Wall Street Journal website, WSJ.com.)

"Bayer engages in systemic discrimination against its female employees--particularly those with family responsibilities--by paying them less than their counterparts, denying them promotions into better and higher paying positions, limiting their employment opportunities to lower and less desirable job classifications, and exposing them to different treatment and a hostile work environment," said Katherine Kimpel, a lawyer for the women bringing suit. "To make matters worse, Bayer is often blatant about its disregard for its female employees."

The defendants include Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals and its U.S. parent Bayer Corp, which is a unit of Bayer AG.

The lawsuit alleges the "dearth in female leadership" at Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals is a contributing factor and a cause of ongoing and pervasive discrimination against female employees at Bayer.

The complaint claims female employees who have complained to upper-level management about discrimination have been told: "You know better. The company won't do anything about that." The lawsuit also claims that the company's human resources department has characterized gender discrimination as a "grey area" that should be handled by the employee, not the company.

A Bayer spokeswoman said the company had previously received administrative complaints before the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission by six current or former New Jersey-based employees. The company was prepared to cooperate fully with the EEOC and respond to the charges, but the plaintiffs elected to terminate those proceedings and file the lawsuit, the spokeswoman said.

"Bayer denies the allegations of gender discrimination and will vigorously defend itself against these charges," the spokeswoman said. "Bayer will not comment further on pending litigation, other than to note that it is committed strongly to a policy of non-discrimination and equal treatment for all employees."

A number of corporations who do business in the U.S. have faced discrimination suits on behalf of their female employees.

Last month, Sanford Wittels & Heisler, which brought the Bayer suit, sued Toshiba Corp.'s (TOSYY, 6502.TO) U.S. business and French advertising company Publicis Group SA (PUBGY, PUB.FR) on behalf of female employees in the U.S.

In July, Novartis AG's (NVS, NOVN.VX) U.S. unit agreed to pay $175 million to settle a long-running discrimination suit brought by Sanford Wittels. The settlement followed a $253 million jury verdict against the company.

In September, three women who formerly worked for Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) sued the investment bank alleging the firm discriminates against women in pay and promotions.

Later this year, the U.S. Supreme Court is expected to hear a 2010 lawsuit on behalf of as many as 1.5 million female employees at Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT).

-By Chad Bray, The Wall Street Journal, 212-227-2017; chad.bray@wsj.com [ 03-21-11 1351ET ]

Document DJ00000020110321e73l000g5



NATIONAL
WAL-MART    DISCRIMINATION  CASE HEADING TO SUPREME COURT

Greg Stohr      
672 words
20 March 2011
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
PPGZ
TWO STAR
A-3
English
© 2011 Post Gazette Publishing Company.    Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.    All rights reserved.        

WASHINGTON -- More than 100 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. workers paint a similar picture in sworn complaints about the company: Local managers made sexist decisions about promotions and pay, and top officials did nothing to stop them.

The Supreme Court is poised to consider whether those allegations warrant a class-action suit of unprecedented size, potentially on behalf of more than 1 million female Wal-Mart workers. At issue is whether the claims point to a companywide practice of alleged discrimination or instead amount to isolated anecdotes at a company with almost 1.4 million employees.

The case, set for argument March 29, marks the court's first look in 12 years at the standards for certifying a class action. Worker advocates say a victory for Wal-Mart would crush efforts to force change at companies steeped in bias, while corporate groups say a ruling allowing the suit might unleash a wave of employment, antitrust and product-liability suits.

"It has a huge impact for large employers," said Lisa Blatt, a Washington appellate lawyer at Arnold & Porter who filed a brief supporting Wal-Mart for the company-backed Retail Litigation Center. "If you're an employer with a million people, you're subject to these nationwide, massive, sprawling lawsuits."

By any measure, the suit against Wal-Mart is massive, threatening the country's largest private employer with billions of dollars in damages. Filed in 2001, the suit aims to cover every woman who worked at the retailer's Wal-Mart and Sam's Club's stores at any point since December 1998, including those not hired until years after the suit was filed.

In letting the suit go forward, a federal appeals court said the class would consist of 500,000 women, a number that included only current employees. In certifying the class in 2004, a trial judge said the group had more than 1.5 million members, including former employees. Both figures may be low given that Wal-Mart says it has employed 3 million women since the 2004 order.

"I have no doubt that the class would exceed a million," said Brad Seligman, the lead lawyer for the women.

Wal-Mart says the size of the class is only part of the problem. At the time of the certification order, the company's hourly employees worked in 53 departments and with 170 job classifications. The company had divided its retail operations into 41 regions, each with its own vice president, and had 3,400 stores, each with a manager who was afforded significant discretion in making pay and promotion decisions.

Allowing such a sprawling class would deprive the company of its right to contest the claims of each woman individually, says Theodore Boutrous, Wal-Mart's lead lawyer.

"Class actions can be helpful for efficiency, and there's an attraction to that. But at some point they can start chopping away rights," he said.

More than 20 companies are supporting Wal-Mart at the high court, including Intel, Altria Group, Bank of America, Microsoft and General Electric Co.

Wal-Mart contends in its appeal that the suit doesn't adhere to the rules that govern class actions in federal court. Under those rules, claims must have common questions and the representative plaintiffs must be typical of the class as a whole.

A second issue in the case is potentially even more consequential, according to David Frederick, an appellate lawyer at Kellogg Huber Hansen Todd Evans & Figel in Washington.

The question is whether the workers must meet the standards that normally apply to class actions seeking damages or instead the looser requirements for plaintiffs seeking an injunction. The answer is in dispute in part because courts traditionally consider back pay to be an injunctive award.

A ruling for Wal-Mart on that issue would be "hugely important for lots of cases outside the employment context," Mr. Frederick said. He said such a decision could endanger some consumer-fraud suits.

Document PPGZ000020110320e73k0005s

National News
In Wal-Mart Fight, Class Action Law Faces Test

BY TONY MAURO AND MARCIA COYLE The National Law Journal      
1,000 words
18 March 2011
The Legal Intelligencer
LINTEL
4
Volume 243; Issue 53
English
Copyright 2011 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

Among their hundreds of pages of dueling arguments, the companies and organizations supporting or opposing Wal-Mart in its landmark Supreme Court challenge Wal-Mart v. Dukes do agree on one point: Whatever the justices say about class action certification will resound across a wide swath of law, not just employment discrimination.

Ruling in favor of the class of female current and former Wal-Mart workers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce warns, "has the potential to dramatically increase the class action exposure of the Chamber's members and all companies doing business in the United States."

But advocates on the other side say a ruling for Wal-Mart could effectively close the door on class action lawsuits as an efficient way to prosecute claims instead of hundreds or thousands of repetitive trials — especially, but not only, in civil rights cases. "If Wal-Mart has its way, it will be impossible to bring its employees fundamental paycheck fairness," said Sarah Crawford of the National Partnership for Women and Families. Her brief cites Brown v. Board of Education as a prime example of class action litigation that must be preserved.

The 29 amicus curiae briefs in the largest job discrimination case in history — 15 for Wal-Mart, 14 for the class of plaintiffs — have attracted a wide array of law firms and lawyers, from Supreme Court veterans Roy Englert Jr. of Robbins Russell Englert Orseck Untereiner & Sauber, Arnold & Porter's Lisa Blatt, and Jeffrey Lamken of MoloLamken, to noted academics like Arthur Miller of New York University Law School, to civil rights firms like Chicago's Miner Barnhill & Galland, which once counted Barack Obama as a junior associate.

Even though the underlying lawsuit tells the story of women who work for the nation's largest retailer, the briefs are mostly devoid of personal details. Instead, they focus on the federal rules of civil procedure that govern class action lawsuits.

At issue is whether plaintiffs can use Rule 23(b)(2), which specifically provides for injunctive and other non-monetary relief, to seek money damages, and whether the Dukes class certification was consistent with Rule 23(a) requirements, including commonality of interest within the class. When it granted review last December, the court excluded from the case constitutional issues involving due process and the Seventh Amendment.

The giant retailer, represented by Theodore Boutrous Jr. of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher, argues that the answer to both questions in the case is "no." It is supported by an array of mega-companies, such as General Electric, Intel, Microsoft and DuPont, as well as by such conservative-pro-business organizations as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Washington Legal Foundation and the Defense Research Institute.

The 15 amicus briefs supporting Wal-Mart tackle chunks of the retailer's main arguments, emphasizing, for example, that class certification in this case violated the Rules Enabling Act by modifying substantive rights under Title VII, the nation's major anti-job bias law. They also argue that the district court and 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals erred by failing to conduct a Daubert analysis of the testimony of the plaintiffs' chief expert. More broadly, they assert that the plaintiffs fail to meet class certification requirements of typical claims, adequate representation and common issues.

By using overall statistics and social science research, the Costco brief argues, the Wal-Mart plaintiffs were able to "gloss over the absence of any widespread discrimination at the level where employment decisions actually occur" — at individual stores. David Ross of Seyfarth Shaw wrote the brief.

The other side, led by Joseph Sellers of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll, counters all those points, arguing that apart from size, the Wal-Mart suit is a typical class action that meets all the requirements of Rule 23. "There is nothing in Rule 23 that says size matters," said John Vail of the Center for Constitutional Litigation, which filed a brief for the plaintiffs.

The plaintiffs' side also rejects Wal-Mart's argument that its employment decision-making is so decentralized that the class does not meet requirements of typicality and common issues. That decentralization, the plaintiffs' amici insist, is itself a companywide policy that encourages bias and can be attacked through class actions.

One of the plaintiffs' amici also targets a theme that runs through several of the Wal-Mart briefs: that class actions like this one are intended mainly to force employers into "blackmail settlements" to avoid ruinous class action liability. A group of law and economics professors, citing empirical studies, assert that civil rights class actions are rarely filed or certified, and that the notion of "blackmail settlements" is a myth. The brief was authored by Robert Libman of Miner Barnhill & Galland, Obama's old firm.

Missing from the lineup on either side is the solicitor general of the United States.

Arnold & Porter's Blatt, formerly an assistant to the solicitor general, noted in an amicus brief on behalf of the Retail Litigation Center supporting Wal-Mart, that the federal government has made some of the same arguments as Wal-Mart when it has opposed class certification as a defendant in Title VII and other discrimination lawsuits.

But in an interview, Blatt said the government does not file as amicus in class action cases because of the tension inherent in its dual roles as enforcer of Title VII and other discrimination laws, and as the country's largest employer to whom all those laws apply.

"The government clearly has an interest in the issue presented in Wal-Mart on the certification question, but it also has an interest in enforcement of Title VII," she said.

Tony Mauro and Marcia Coyle are reporters for The National Law Journal, a Legal affiliate based in New York. This article first appeared on the NLJ's "Supreme Court Insider" online newsletter.      

Document LINTEL0020110325e73i00006

Alliance for Justice Issues Report on Landmark Walmart v. Dukes Case

743 words
17 March 2011
Targeted News Service
TARGNS
English
Copyright 2011 Targeted News Service ALL Rights Reserved      

WASHINGTON, March 17 -- Alliance for Justice issued the following news release:

Alliance for Justice today released a comprehensive report on the biggest case of the U.S. Supreme Court's 2010-11 term. The report analyzes the stakes and legal ramifications of Wal-Mart v. Dukes, which concerns the right of as many as 1.5 million female Wal-Mart employees to hold the retail giant accountable for a pattern of discrimination that pervades every region of the giant retailer's U.S. operations. Oral arguments in the case are scheduled for Tuesday, March 29.

The report, "Wal-Mart v. Dukes: Will the Supreme Court Protect Wal-Mart's Discrimination Against Women?" is available for download here.

In addition to describing key facts in the case, the report explains its broader implications not just for employment discrimination claims, but for all class actions against major corporations. According to the report, "If our nation's largest employer can avoid liability for systemic discrimination across its nationwide chain of stores, it will undermine the equal rights of all women workers. Moreover, any ruling by the Roberts Court that makes it harder for employees to bring a class action will remove an important safeguard that protects workers when they suffer discrimination."

Among the information and themes explored in the report are:

* Whether Wal-Mart's size and the sheer number of its stores, managers, and employees will prevent class certification for widespread gender discrimination. The report addresses this core issue in the case from a number of angles. It tells the personal stories of Betty Dukes and Edith Arana, excerpts declarations of more than 110 other women who filed stories of discrimination, and recounts statistical evidence that shows pay and promotion disparities in each Wal-Mart region and for virtually every job category. The report also explains how Wal-Mart created a structure that led to an upper-level management that consists of nearly all men, while women comprise the vast majority of lower-level employees. Tellingly, Wal-Mart has among the worst records of American retailers for hiring women in management, with its management practices stuck where its rivals were in the mid-1970s. Moreover, it was warned about its discriminatory practices six years before this case was filed by a law firm that found that men were "five and a half times as likely as women to be promoted." Wal-Mart ignored the firm's advice and continued its practices.

* What's at stake for the women at Wal-Mart? Class actions play an essential role in holding corporations accountable for their widespread unlawful behavior, particularly when the harm suffered by each individual is small relative to the larger discriminatory picture. As a result of the relative disadvantages of filing claims, most plaintiffs who lose at the class certification stage do not pursue individual suits, which, even if successful, would not force Wal-Mart to change its discriminatory practices. Thus, as the report states: "If the Supreme Court limits access to a class action in this case, it will enable Wal-Mart to essentially rob its women employees of fair wages without serious legal consequences."

* What's at stake for American workers? If the Supreme Court decertifies the class action here, it will make it more challenging for other plaintiffs to bring class actions. Depending on the Court's reasoning, a decision favoring the corporation could make it harder for class actions to be filed against other large employers with many outlets, managers, and employees. The Supreme Court might also undermine the availability of back pay for injured class victims.

* Will the Roberts Court buck or continue its pro-corporate trend? Powerful corporations like Wal-Mart have consistently enjoyed a home-field advantage when litigating in front of the Roberts Court. Since 1953, corporate interests won 42 percent of the time in the Supreme Court, but that percentage has jumped to 61 percent in the Roberts Court, with three of the seven most pro-corporate terms occurring during Chief Justice Roberts' first five years. Just last term, the Roberts Court ruled in favor of the side supported by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in 13 of 16 cases. The U.S. Chamber, and a host of other corporate interests, are supporting Wal-Mart in this case.

TNS JF78JF-110318-3293198 EditorFurigay

Kevin Fry, 202/822-6070, kevin.fry@afj.org      

Document TARGNS0020110318e73h00396

Search Summary

 All of these words

     At least one of these words
discrimination discriminatory discriminate discriminates discriminated discriminating harassment
     None of these words

     This exact phrase

     Date
03/15/2011 to 05/14/2011
     Source
All Sources
     Author
All Authors
     Company
Walmart Inc
     Subject
All Subjects
     Industry
All Industries
     Region
All Regions
     Language
English
     Results Found
230
     Timestamp
16 June 2023 10:23 AM
    
