 
•	Panel Affirms Award Against Wal-Mart in Disability Bias Case; News
•	Federal Appeals Court in New York Orders Wal-Mart to Pay Record-Breaking Damages to Victim of Disability Discrimination
•	Federal Appeals Court In NY Orders Wal-Mart To Pay Damages To Victim Of Disability Discrimination
•	REV. AL SOAKS UP BOYCOTT BUCKS; BIZ GIANTS PAY OR FACE RACE RALLIES
•	Career Journal: Wal-Mart to Settle Disability Case
•	WAL MART TO SETTLE DISABILITY CASE
•	WAL-MART TO PAY $250,000 FOR DISABILITY BIAS
•	WAL-MART TO PAY $250,000 FOR DISABILITY BIAS - EEOC Said Long-Time Pharmacy Technician Fired Because of Gunshot Disability
•	Wal-Mart To Settle ADA Case For $250,000, Provide Training
•	EEOC: Wal-Mart To Pay $250,000 To Settle Disability Discrimination
•	Not all doom and gloom as Wal-Mart boosts profits: World's biggest retailer thrives in tough times: Liberal shareholder resolutions voted...
•	Singing in the rain: Wal-Mart boosts sales and profits
•	Wal-Mart Watch Re-releases 'A Handshake with Sam'
•	Wal-Mart settles whistleblower case, terms not disclosed
•	Wal-Mart settles whistleblower case, terms not disclosed
•	Mexico's Stocks Close Higher; IPC Index Up 0.8%
•	Q1 2009 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Pre-Recorded Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	These days, everybody loves Wal-Mart; Commentary: Once-loathed giant is now the struggling consumer's best friend



News
Panel Affirms Award Against Wal-Mart in Disability Bias Case; News

By Mark Hamblett      
797 words
8 July 2008
New York Law Journal
NYLJ
p.1, col.3
Volume 240; Issue 5
English
Copyright 2008 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

AN EMPLOYER has a duty to reasonably accommodate an employee's disability where the disability is obvious even though the employee did not request an accommodation, a federal appeals panel has ruled.

Staking out an exception to the general rule that the requirement to accommodate is normally triggered by a disabled employee's request, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit said an employer must take action "if the employer knew or reasonably should have known that the employee was disabled."

The circuit made the ruling in upholding a $900,000 award for compensatory and punitive damages, plus $644,000 in attorney's fees, to Patrick S. Brady on his Americans with Disabilities Act claim against Wal-Mart for the actions of its em-ployees at a store in Centereach, Long Island.

Judges Amalya Kearse, Guido Calbresi and Robert Katzmann decided the appeal in Brady v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 06-5486-cv. Judge Calabresi wrote for the panel.

Mr. Brady, who suffers from cerebral palsy, alleged that Wal-Mart personnel asked him prohibited questions before hiring him, and later discriminated against him and created a hostile work environment.

Among his charges were that the store transferred him from the pharmacy to a position that required him to collect shopping carts. Mr. Brady's family and a treating psychiatrist testified that the conditions of his employment caused him severe emotional distress and one time spurred a total breakdown that sent him to the emergency room.

Mr. Brady signed a job description certifying that he had "the ability to perform the essential functions" of the position either "with or without reasonable accommodation."

But he later testified that, soon after he began working, his supervisor, Yem Hung Chin, told him to "speed it up," and appeared dissatisfied with him. Ms. Chin testified she was "completely alarmed at the time" and thought Mr. Brady's performance was "absolutely awful."

Mr. Brady was ultimately assigned to the parking lot to collect garbage and shopping carts. When his father went to the store to complain, a manager arranged for his transfer to the food department to stock shelves but on a schedule that conflicted with his community college schedule. Discouraged, Mr. Brady quit.

A jury award of $2.5 million was reduced by Magistrate Judge James Orenstein to $600,000 and a punitive damages award of $5 million was reduced to the statutory cap of $300,000 (NYLJ, Oct. 3, 2006).

On the appeal, Wal-Mart contended that the short duration of Mr. Brady's transfer to the parking lot meant he had not suffered an adverse employment action. The circuit disagreed, in part because Mr. Brady was not transferred back to the pharmacy.

Judge Calabresi explained that under Graves v. Finch Pruyn & Co., 457 F. 3d 181 (2d Cir. 2006), it is "generally" the responsibility of the employee to tell the employer that an accommodation is needed and the circuit had yet to decide when and under what circumstances the rule in Graves might not apply.

Judge Calabresi said the employer should know to take action when a disability is obvious, and there was a good reason for adopting that rule.

"Indeed, a situation in which an employer perceives an employee to be disabled but the employee does not so perceive himself presents an even stronger case for mitigating the requirement that the employee seeks an accommodation," Judge Calabresi said. "In such situations, the disability is obviously known to the employer, while the employee, because he does not consider himself disabled, is in no position to ask for an accommodation.

"A requirement that such an employee ask for accommodation would be tantamount to nullifying the statutory mandate of accommodation for one entire class of disabled (as that term is used in the ADA) employees."

Douglas H. Wigdor of Thompson Wigdor & Gilly, who represented Mr. Brady, said the court's ruling on this point "makes sense, because otherwise the employer would be able to hide behind a veil of ignorance."

Mr. Wigdor said he also was pleased by the circuit's decision to uphold Magistrate Judge Orenstein's ruling that the jury be allowed to learn that Wal-Mart was subject to a nationwide consent decree it signed with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.

A redacted version of the decree was introduced for the limited purpose of showing that the retailer was aware of its obligations under the American with Disabilities Act.

James Bennett of Dowd Bennett in St. Louis represented Wal-Mart.

Barbara L. Sloan of the EEOC Office of General Counsel represented the agency, which appeared as amicus curiae.

— Mark Hamblett can be reached at mark.hamblett@incisivemedia.com.

Document NYLJ000020080910e478004dw



Federal Appeals Court in New York Orders Wal-Mart to Pay Record-Breaking Damages to Victim of Disability    Discrimination 

417 words
2 July 2008
12:38 PM
PR Newswire (U.S.)
PRN
English
Copyright ©    2008    PR Newswire Association LLC.    All Rights Reserved.          

NEW YORK, July 2 /PRNewswire/ -- More than three years after a jury returned a verdict of $7.5 million in favor of Patrick S. Brady, a 21 year old former Wal-Mart employee who suffers from cerebral palsy, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit rejected Wal-Mart's appeals and confirmed that Mr. Brady is entitled to one of the largest single-plaintiff disability discrimination awards in history.

On February 23, 2005, after one day of deliberation, the jury found that Mr. Brady was unlawfully discriminated against when he was transferred by Wal-Mart and a departmental manager Yem Hung Chin from his position in the pharmacy to a position picking up garbage and collecting shopping carts in the parking lot. The jury also found that Mr. Brady was asked impermissible pre-employment questions concerning his disability, and that Wal-Mart failed to engage in the reasonable accommodation interactive process. In response to the Second Circuit's decision rejection of Wal-Mart's appeals, Mr. Brady spoke enthusiastically about how he is "very proud to be an American. Even if it takes a long time, our legal system helps people like me stand up against big companies like Wal-Mart."

Douglas H. Wigdor, a partner at Thompson Wigdor & Gilly LLP and lead counsel for Mr. Brady hailed the Second Circuit's determination that the jury awards of compensatory and punitive damages -- which had been reduced by the trial court -- were "well reasoned and thoughtful. The jury recognized from the evidence that we presented that Wal-Mart and Ms. Chin acted unlawfully and that Mr. Brady suffered severe emotional distress because of their actions. Although Wal-Mart fought this to the bitter end, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals has finally held Wal-Mart accountable for its discriminatory practices and vindicated Mr. Brady's long struggle to stand up for his federally protected human rights as a person with disabilities."

About Thompson Wigdor & Gilly: Thompson Wigdor & Gilly LLP http://twglaw.com is a law firm specializing in high profile, complex litigation and investigations as well as civil and criminal trials. They can be reached at 212.239.9292 or info@twglaw.com.

CONTACT:

Douglas H. Wigdor

(212) 239-9292

SOURCE Thompson Wigdor & Gilly

Douglas H. Wigdor, +1-212-239-9292      

200807021338PR_NEWS_USPR_____NYW063.xml      

Document PRN0000020080702e472006mx



Federal Appeals Court In NY Orders Wal-Mart To Pay Damages To Victim Of Disability    Discrimination 

16 words
2 July 2008
12:39 PM
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.      

Document DJ00000020080702e472000d5



News
REV. AL SOAKS UP BOYCOTT BUCKS; BIZ GIANTS PAY OR FACE RACE RALLIES

By ISABEL VINCENT and SUSAN EDELMAN      
1,829 words
15 June 2008
New York Post
NYPO
4
English
(c) 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.      

Anheuser-Busch gave him six figures, Colgate-Palmolive shelled out $50,000 and Macy's and Pfizer have contributed thousands to the Rev. Al Sharpton's charity.

Almost 50 companies - including PepsiCo, General Motors, Wal-Mart, FedEx, Continental Airlines, Johnson & Johnson and Chase - and some labor unions sponsored Sharpton's National Action Network annual conference in April.

Terrified of negative publicity, fearful of a consumer boycott or eager to make nice with the civil-rights activist, CEOs write checks, critics say, to NAN and Sharpton - who brandishes the buying power of African-American consumers. In some cases, they hire him as a consultant.

The cash flows even as the US Attorney's Office in Brooklyn has been conducting a grand-jury investigation of NAN's finances.

A General Motors spokesman told The Post that NAN had repeatedly - and unsuccessfully - asked for contributions for six years, beginning in August 2000.

Then, in December 2006, Sharpton threatened to call a boycott of the carmaker over the closing of an African-American-owned GM dealership in The Bronx, and he picketed outside GM headquarters on Fifth Avenue.

Last year, General Motors gave NAN a $5,000 donation. It gave $5,000 more this year, a spokesman said, calling NAN a "worthy" organization.

In November 2003, Sharpton picketed DaimlerChrysler's Chicago car show and threatened a boycott over alleged racial bias in car loans.

"This is institutional racism," he bellowed.

In May 2004, Chrysler began supporting NAN's conferences, which include panels on corporate responsibility and civil rights and a black-tie awards dinner to honor Martin Luther King Jr. Last year, Sharpton gave Chrysler an award for corporate excellence.

In 2003, Sharpton targeted American Honda for not hiring enough African-Americans in management.

"We support those that support us," wrote Sharpton and the Rev. Horace Sheffield III, president of NAN's Michigan chapter, in a letter to American Honda. "We cannot be silent while African-Americans spend hard-earned dollars with a company that does not hire, promote or do business with us in a statistically significant manner."

Two months after American Honda execs met with Sharpton, the carmaker began to sponsor NAN's events - and continues to pay "a modest amount" each year, a spokesman said.

"I think this is quite clearly a shakedown operation," said Peter Flaherty, president of the National Legal and Policy Center in Virginia, a conservative corporate watchdog. "He's good at harassing people and making noise. CEOs give him his way because it is a lot easier than confronting him."

Sharpton denies his organization pressures corporations for cash.

"That's the old shakedown theory that the anti-civil-rights forces have used against us forever," he told The Post yesterday. "Why can't they come up with one company that says that? No one has criticized me."

A businessman who hired Sharpton as a consultant says the flamboyant leader skillfully persuades CEOs by wielding the statistic that African-Americans spend $738 billion a year.

"His way of doing things was, 'If we're going to support you and you're not going to support us, then we have to focus on telling the African-American community not to spend their money,' " said La-Van Hawkins, a partner in Hawkins Food Group, which owns and operates fast-food franchises nationwide.

Hawkins spoke from the Yankton Federal Prison in South Dakota, where he's serving time for attempted bribery.

After Hawkins lost an attempt to sue Burger King in 2000 for denying him franchises, he sent Sharpton, attorney Johnnie Cochran and a Miami lawyer to meet with the company's top execs.

"They ended up settling with me for $31 million," Hawkins said.

Sharpton did not get a cut, but Hawkins Food Group paid him an annual $25,000 fee, Hawkins said. He said he has donated "over $1 million" to NAN.

Sharpton has snagged other gigs as a consultant. Less than a year after he threatened to call for a consumer boycott of Pepsi in June 1998 because the company's ads did not portray African-Americans, the company hired him as a $25,000-a-year adviser until 2007.

Sharpton made the same complaint against Macy's in 1998. The company appointed Sharpton an unpaid adviser on diversity, but also funds NAN's annual conference. Last week, Macy's Senior Vice President Ed Goldberg praised Sharpton as "the kind of guy you can sit down and talk to."

In a dramatic flip-flop, Sharpton in 2000 blasted New York developer Bruce Ratner for paying low wages to workers at his Atlantic Mall in Brooklyn.

"We will not allow you to enslave our communities, Mr. Ratner," Sharpton told a rally. "You must meet with us - you must come to terms with the poverty you are creating using public dollars."

By 2004, the developer's company, Forest City Ratner, had begun to fork over thousands of dollars to NAN. Sharpton now strongly supports Ratner's proposed Atlantic Yards project, which includes a new arena for the New Jersey Nets.

"Just because Pepsi and other companies had me on their board advising them didn't mean that I wasn't blasting them all the time," said Sharpton.

"Look at Forest City Ratner. I blasted them and they came up with one of the best community agreements for blacks and Latinos."

NAN, which began humbly in Harlem in 1991 with Saturday-morning rallies at PS 175, now boasts 45 chapters across the country. The group lobbies for African-American rights and raises awareness of issues such as police brutality and racial profiling.

"Sharpton went national just like a franchise," said Flaherty. "Each of these local chapters can now hit up businesses for support in their communities."

In 2002, NAN launched a Las Vegas chapter that solicits corporate and individual donations of up to $5,000 on its Web site. NAN spokesman Charlie King said all donations go through the New York office.

It's unclear how much the chapter has raised, because Nevada does not require charities to report their revenues. King would not give numbers.

Sharpton vowed to call a national boycott against MGM Mirage in 2001 and 2002 if it refused to meet with him to discuss alleged racism in hiring and employment at the company's Detroit casino.

In 2003, MGM named NAN one of its diversity "partners" in Detroit.

Sharpton sticks up for his corporate patrons.

Since 2005, Wal-Mart has given yearly support to NAN, including sponsorship of last April's conference, without disclosing the amounts.

In 2006, the Rev. Jesse Jackson, a Sharpton rival, accused the retailer of buying silence from critics of its employment practices by trying to "throw money at us."

At the time, Sharpton rushed to the company's defense. "Wal-Mart has in no way tried to persuade me with money," he declared.

NAN, a tax-exempt nonprofit, closely guards its corporate largesse. Most companies also keep the sums secret, and some would not divulge them. The corporations interviewed by The Post viewed their relationships with NAN as friendly and beneficial.

Anheuser-Busch states on its Web site that it gave the group "between $100,000 and $499,000" last year.

Last year, Attorney General Andrew Cuomo found NAN had failed to file years' worth of financial reports. The group has filed more records, but the AG's office said it won't release them pending the US attorney's probe.

In its 2006 IRS filing, the latest available, NAN reported about $1 million in contributions and $1.1 million in expenses and programs. It owes the IRS $1.9 million in payroll taxes, The Post has learned.

A NAN spokesman said the group is cooperating with authorities "to pay whatever obligations it owes and continues to do so."

*** Major corporations have given big bucks to the Rev. Al Sharpton's National Action Network, a nonprofit civilrights group that is under scrutiny by federal authorities and owes nearly $2 million in payroll taxes to the IRS. Some donations come under threat of a boycott or to curry favor with the organization, critics say, calling it "hush money." The companies and Sharpton call it a partnership to promote diversity.

1. PepsiCo June 1998: Sharpton calls for a boycott of Pepsi, citing a lack of African-Americans in advertising campaigns.

January 1999: Pepsi is a sponsor of a conference hosted by Sharpton and NAN on racial and ethnic diversity at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel. Pepsi names Sharpton to its "diversity consulting board," paying him $25,000 a year. He is removed from the board in 2007, but Pepsi continues to financially support NAN's annual conferences.

2. General Motors December 2006: Sharpton urges a major boycott of GM after an African-American loses his GM dealership in New York and sues the company.

2007: GM gives NAN $5,000. NAN lists the carmaker as a sponsor at its annual conference.

3. Forest City Ratner

May 2000: Sharpton speaks at a worker rally at the Atlantic Mall in Brooklyn, a Forest City Ratner project, accusing developer Bruce Ratner of paying low wages and "enslaving our communities."

2004: Forest City Ratner begins to provide yearly financial support to NAN in the thousands of dollars. The company sponsors NAN conferences. Sharpton becomes a vocal supporter of the company's plan to build the Atlantic Yards near the mall, including a new NBA arena.

4. MGM Mirage

December 2001: Sharpton vows to call for a national boycott if the company refuses to meet with him regarding discrimination at the company's Detroit casino. He repeats the threat in March 2002 at a Las Vegas protest of alleged racism in hiring and employment by MGM.

2003: MGM names NAN a "partner" in its diversity program in Detroit, home of an MGM Grand casino.

5. American Honda

April 2003: Sharpton sends a letter to the carmaker demanding it hire more African-Americans in executive posts.

June 2003: American Honda begins to support NAN with a "modest" payment each year.

6. Chrysler

February 2003: Sharpton calls for a nationwide boycott of DaimlerChrysler, alleging the company has discriminated against African-Americans applying for car loans.

2004: The company becomes a sponsor at NAN's national convention in May. Chrysler also agrees to settle a lawsuit brought against the company by African-American groups.

7 . Colgate-Palmolive

April 2008: The company acknowledges it gave NAN $50,000.

April 2008: NAN gives Colgate-Palmolive its "corporate excellence award" at its Memphis conference honoring Martin Luther King Jr.

8. Macy's

June 1998: Sharpton threatens a boycott over an alleged lack of diversity in ads.

January 1999: Macy's parent company, Federated Department Stores, appoints Sharpton an unpaid adviser on diversity. Macy's becomes a sponsor of NAN events and conferences, continuing to give financial support every year. 

AL SHARPTON. (Michael Sofronski)      

Document NYPO000020080618e46f0000p



Career Journal: Wal-Mart to Settle Disability Case

222 words
10 June 2008
The Wall Street Journal
J
D4
English
Copyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. will pay $250,000 and make policy changes to settle a disability discrimination lawsuit filed by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.

The agency accused the Bentonville, Ark., retailer of failing to accommodate, then firing, a long-time pharmacy technician disabled by a gunshot wound.

In a lawsuit filed in federal court in Maryland, the commission said Glenda D. Allen had worked as a Wal-Mart pharmacy technician since July 1993 and was shot during a robbery at a different employer in 1994.

She suffered permanent damage to her spinal cord and other problems and had to use a cane to walk.

Despite what the EEOC said was a successful job performance, Wal-Mart declared Ms. Allen incapable of performing her job with or without a reasonable accommodation, denied her a reasonable accommodation and fired her because of her disability.

The company will provide Americans with Disabilities training to salaried supervisors and managers of its Abingdon, Md., stores and pharmacies and list all employees there who have complained of such problems.

This is the EEOC's second settlement this year with Wal-Mart about the ADA. In April, it settled a lawsuit about the company's failure to hire a person with cerebral palsy for $300,000 and agreed to make policy changes.

Document J000000020080610e46a0000n

WAL MART TO SETTLE DISABILITY CASE

133 words
10 June 2008
Insurance Information Institute Database
IIID
Page D4
English
(c) 2008 Insurance Information Institute, Inc. .      

Wal Mart Stores Inc., the retail chain based in Bentonville, Arkansas, agreed to pay $250,000 and change its policies to settle a discrimination lawsuit filed by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) in federal court in Maryland. The lawsuit accused Wal Mart of failing to accommodate and then dismissing Glenda Allen, a disabled employee who had worked as a pharmacy technician for the company since 1993. Allen became disabled from a gunshot wound during a robbery at a different employer in 1994. The EEOC contended that Allen’s job performance was successful. As part of the agreement Wal Mart will provide Americans with Disabilities training to supervisors and managers of its stores and pharmacies in Abingdon, Maryland.

Source: The Wall Street Journal

Article ID Number: 2008061002      

Document IIID000020080627e46a0000d



WAL-MART TO PAY $250,000 FOR DISABILITY BIAS

754 words
9 June 2008
US Fed News
INDFED
English
© Copyright 2008.    HT Media Limited.    All rights reserved.      

BALTIMORE, June 9 -- The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission issued the following press release:

Retail giant Wal-Mart will pay $250,000 and furnish significant injunctive relief to settle a disability discrimination lawsuit filed by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the agency announced today. The EEOC had charged that Wal-Mart failed to accommodate and then fired a long-time pharmacy technician who suffered a disability resulting from a gunshot wound.

In its suit (1:06-cv-2514), filed in U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland, the EEOC said that Glenda D. Allen had been employed with the Arkansas-based company as a pharmacy technician since July 1993, most recently at its store in Abingdon, Md. As a result of a gunshot wound sustained during the course of a robbery at a different employer in 1994, Allen suffered permanent damage to her spinal cord and other medical issues, including an abnormal gait requiring the use of a cane as an assistive device.

The agency charged that despite Allen's successful job performance throughout her employment, Wal-Mart declared her incapable of performing her position with or without a reasonable accommodation, denied her a reasonable accommodation, and then unlawfully fired her because of her disability. The lawsuit settled shortly after the court denied Wal-Mart's motion for summary judgment on March 10, and partially granted the EEOC's cross-motion for summary judgment finding that Wal-Mart had no undue hardship defense.

Disability discrimination violates the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The EEOC filed suit after first attempting to reach a voluntary settlement.

Commenting on her case, Allen said, "After beating all the odds - surviving my injury when not expected to survive, walking again when told that I would never walk again, and returning to work where I received excellent performance evaluations and consistent merit increases - I was devastated to have the rug pulled out from underneath me simply because Wal-Mart could 'no longer accommodate my handicap needs.' I am hopeful that this settlement will make Wal-Mart take a closer look at its policies and practices with respect to the employment of individuals with disabilities so that what happened to me will not happen to someone else."

Along with the monetary payment, the consent decree settling the suit requires Wal-Mart to:

* Observe the ADA and post a notice to employees on the ADA;

* Have all salaried supervisors and managers of its Abingdon stores and in pharmacies in the district that includes Abingdon complete training on the ADA with annual refresher training for the next three years; and

* Submit a list of all employees at the Abingdon store and the pharmacies in the Abingdon district who have been denied reasonable accommodation and/or complained that they have been unlawfully denied reasonable accommodation or terminated because of their disabilities.

The EEOC will monitor the company's compliance with the decree for the next three years.

"When an employer is faced with an employee who has difficulty performing certain tasks because of his or her disability, it cannot sit back passively and then turn around and fire the employee because of its own failure to accommodate," said EEOC Regional Attorney Jacqueline McNair. "Federal law mandates that employers engage in a good-faith interactive dialogue with the qualified disabled employee to identify potential reasonable accommodations."

This is the EEOC's second settlement this year with Wal-Mart concerning the ADA. In April 2008, the EEOC settled a lawsuit concerning Wal-Mart's failure to hire an individual with cerebral palsy in Richmond, Mo., (EEOC v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., No. 04-cv-0076 (W.D. Mo. April 18, 2008) for $300,000 and injunctive relief. According to its web site (www.walmart.com), "Today, 7,357 Wal-Mart stores and Sam's Club locations in 14 mar

kets employ more than 2 million associates, serving more than 179 million customers a year."

During Fiscal Year 2007, disability discrimination charges filed with the EEOC under the ADA increased 14% to 17,734 - the highest level in a decade. Approximately one out of every five private sector charge filings with the EEOC contains an allegation of disability discrimination.

The EEOC enforces federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination. Further information about the Commission is available on its web site at www.eeoc.gov.

HTS styd 080610-1602548 YDIXIT

Jacqueline H. McNair, 215/440-2666, 215/440-2670, 215/440-2610; Debra Lawrence, 410/209-2733.      

Document INDFED0020080610e469001en

WAL-MART TO PAY $250,000 FOR DISABILITY BIAS - EEOC Said Long-Time Pharmacy Technician Fired Because of Gunshot Disability

764 words
9 June 2008
Government Publications and Press Releases
GOVPUB
English
Copyright © 2008 Federal Information & News Dispatch, Inc.      

Press Releases and Statements

BALTIMORE - Retail giant Wal-Mart will pay $250,000 and furnish significant injunctive relief to settle a disability discrimination lawsuit filed by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the agency announced today. The EEOC had charged that Wal-Mart failed to accommodate and then fired a long-time pharmacy technician who suffered a disability resulting from a gunshot wound.

In its suit (1: 06-cv-2514), filed in U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland, the EEOC said that Glenda D. Allen had been employed with the Arkansas-based company as a pharmacy technician since July 1993, most recently at its store in Abingdon, Md. As a result of a gunshot wound sustained during the course of a robbery at a different employer in 1994, Allen suffered permanent damage to her spinal cord and other medical issues, including an abnormal gait requiring the use of a cane as an assistive device.

The agency charged that despite Allen's successful job performance throughout her employment, Wal-Mart declared her incapable of performing her position with or without a reasonable accommodation, denied her a reasonable accommodation, and then unlawfully fired her because of her disability. The lawsuit settled shortly after the court denied Wal-Mart's motion for summary judgment on March 10, and partially granted the EEOC's cross-motion for summary judgment finding that Wal-Mart had no undue hardship defense.

Disability discrimination violates the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The EEOC filed suit after first attempting to reach a voluntary settlement.

Commenting on her case, Allen said, "After beating all the odds -- surviving my injury when not expected to survive, walking again when told that I would never walk again, and returning to work where I received excellent performance evaluations and consistent merit increases -- I was devastated to have the rug pulled out from underneath me simply because Wal-Mart could 'no longer accommodate my handicap needs.' I am hopeful that this settlement will make Wal-Mart take a closer look at its policies and practices with respect to the employment of individuals with disabilities so that what happened to me will not happen to someone else."

Along with the monetary payment, the consent decree settling the suit requires Wal-Mart to:

*Observe the ADA and post a notice to employees on the ADA;

*Have all salaried supervisors and managers of its Abingdon stores and in pharmacies in the district that includes Abingdon complete training on the ADA with annual refresher training for the next three years; and

*Submit a list of all employees at the Abingdon store and the pharmacies in the Abingdon district who have been denied reasonable accommodation and/or complained that they have been unlawfully denied reasonable accommodation or terminated because of their disabilities.

The EEOC will monitor the company's compliance with the decree for the next three years.

"When an employer is faced with an employee who has difficulty performing certain tasks because of his or her disability, it cannot sit back passively and then turn around and fire the employee because of its own failure to accommodate," said EEOC Regional Attorney Jacqueline McNair. "Federal law mandates that employers engage in a good-faith interactive dialogue with the qualified disabled employee to identify potential reasonable accommodations."

This is the EEOC's second settlement this year with Wal-Mart concerning the ADA. In April 2008, the EEOC settled a lawsuit concerning Wal-Mart's failure to hire an individual with cerebral palsy in Richmond, Mo., (EEOC v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., No. 04-cv-0076 (W.D. Mo. April 18, 2008) for $300,000 and injunctive relief. According to its web site (www.walmart.com), "Today, 7,357 Wal-Mart stores and Sam's Club locations in 14 markets employ more than 2 million associates, serving more than 179 million customers a year."

During Fiscal Year 2007, disability discrimination charges filed with the EEOC under the ADA increased 14% to 17,734 -- the highest level in a decade. Approximately one out of every five private sector charge filings with the EEOC contains an allegation of disability discrimination.

The EEOC enforces federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination. Further information about the Commission is available on its web site at www.eeoc.gov.

CONTACT: Jacqueline H. McNair, Regional Attorney, (215) 440-2666/2670, TTY: (215) 440-2610, Debra Lawrence, Supervisory Trial Attorney, (410) 209-2734, Maria Salacuse, Senior Trial Attorney, (410) 209-2733

Document GOVPUB0020080609e4690002t



Wal-Mart To Settle ADA Case For $250,000, Provide Training

261 words
9 June 2008
02:24 PM
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.      


 
   DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 
 

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) will pay $250,000 and make policy changes to settle a disability discrimination lawsuit filed by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.

The agency accused Wal-Mart of failing to accommodate, then firing, a longtime pharmacy technician disabled by a gunshot wound.

In a lawsuit filed in federal court in Maryland, the commission said Glenda D. Allen had worked as a Wal-Mart pharmacy technician since July 1993 and was shot during a robbery at a different employer in 1994. She suffered permanent damage to her spinal cord and other problems and had to use a cane to walk. Despite what the EEOC said was a successful job performance, Wal-Mart declared Allen incapable of performing her job with or without a reasonable accommodation, denied her a reasonable accommodation, then fired her because of her disability.

The company will provide Americans with Disabilities Act training to salaried supervisors and managers of its Abingdon, Md., stores and pharmacies and list all employees there who have complained of such problems.

This is the EEOC's second settlement this year with Wal-Mart about the ADA. In April, it settled a lawsuit for $300,000 about the company's failure to hire a person with cerebral palsy and agreed to make policy changes.

Wal-Mart's shares recently traded at $59.31, up 94 cents, or 1.6%.

-By Kathy Shwiff, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5975; kathy.shwiff@dowjones.com [ 06-09-08 1524ET ]

Document DJ00000020080609e469000sr



EEOC: Wal-Mart To Pay $250,000 To Settle Disability    Discrimination 

11 words
9 June 2008
12:04 PM
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.      

Document DJ00000020080609e469000p5



Guardian Financial Pages
Not all doom and gloom as Wal-Mart boosts profits: World's biggest retailer thrives in tough times: Liberal shareholder resolutions voted down

Andrew Clark, Fayetteville    
740 words
7 June 2008
The Guardian
GRDN
37
English
© Copyright 2008.    The Guardian.    All rights reserved.    

Economic gloom may be gripping middle America but the world's biggest retailer can still muster a cheering crowd of 17,000 for its star-studded shareholders' meeting, including Queen Latifah, a band of Brazilian drummers and Joss Stone.

Lee Scott, Wal-Mart's chief executive, acknowledged the challenges facing the cut-price retailer's customers by referring to the company's late founder, Sam Walton. "I wonder if Sam ever could have imagined a day when oil would cost $130 a barrel or when milk would cost more than $4 a gallon?" he asked.

A large contingent of enthusiastic Asda staff flew out from Britain to join Wal-Mart employees in the Bud Walton Arena at the University of Arkansas. Wal-Mart trumpeted its $12.9bn (pounds 6.5bn) in global profits from 7,000 stores in 14 countries.

There was little dissent as seven shareholder resolutions were voted down, including calls for a policy to protect transsexuals against discrimination, for the establishment of a human rights committee and for an advisory "say on pay" vote on executive remuneration.

To no avail, the proponent of one resolution demanded: "Who wants Wal-Mart to be a great company? Who wants Wal-Mart to respect human rights?"

An eighth resolution demanding that Wal-Mart loosen its anti-union policies to comply with the International Labour Organisation was withdrawn by supporters, including the British investment firm F&C, after Wal-Mart offered to join a dialogue on the issue.

Scott, who has presided over a softening of the company's conservative image, made it clear that engagement was the firm's new watchword. "We all have to work together - businesses, governments and non-governmental organisations," he said. "People's expectations of us - and of corporations in general - have changed."

Wal-Mart is aggressively pushing its environmental initiatives, which include rainwater harvesting at its superstores, cutting back on plastic packaging and a scheme to help customers recycle electronics. But inflation remains an issue. Soaring global prices for staple commodities have prompted Wal-Mart to squeeze its food suppliers more tightly by demanding cuts in transport costs.

Jack Sinclair, the firm's vice-president for groceries, said that in some cases Wal-Mart was buying fruit and vegetables more locally to reduce logistics expenses.

"It's a very tough economy - customers are clearly under a lot of pressure with their gas prices and grocery bills," he said. "We're working very hard with our vendors to make sure the impact of commodity prices isn't passed on."

Wal-Mart's shares soared to a four-year high this week on a belief that the company can benefit as customers "trade down" to cheaper food. The firm beat expectations with a 3.9% rise in like-for-like sales in May, aided by cashing thousands of tax rebate cheques issued under the Bush administration's economic surplus plan.

Recent innovations at US stores include a Father's Day greetings card in which children can record a message in their own voices, televisions with organic LEDs and improved ready meals to cater for "staycations" as cash-strapped Americans remain at home for the summer.

Customers at Wal-Mart stores in countries such as El Salvador, Costa Rica and Guatemala have been altering their diets to cope. "There may be some substitution between grains and between bread and tortilla and between meat and poultry," said Ignacio Perez, head of Wal-Mart's central American operations. "We're watching very carefully how that evolves."

In the US, a run on rice recently prompted Wal-Mart to ration sales to four large sacks per person. The firm is willing to limit allocations of other foods if necessary, arguing that it amounts to a choice between rationing or raising prices. "If it happens again in rice or some other commodity, I think we would take the same action," said Doug McMillon, head of the company's cash-and-carry subsidiary, Sam's Club.

Wal-Mart's next initiatives include opening its first cash-and-carry warehouse in India. And an executive has been appointed to examine entry into Russia. Mike Duke, the firm's international boss, said: "We are exploring Russia and we do think there are real opportunities there."

Document GRDN000020080607e4670005o



Singing in the rain: Wal-Mart boosts sales and profits

786 words
6 June 2008
Guardian Unlimited
GRULTD
English
Guardian Unlimited © Guardian Newspapers Limited 2008. All rights reserved      

Economic gloom may be gripping middle America but the world's biggest retailer can still muster a cheering crowd of 17,000 for star-studded shareholders' meeting including a troupe of acrobats, a band of Brazilian drummers and Joss Stone

Economic gloom may be gripping middle America but the world's biggest retailer can still muster a cheering crowd of 17,000 for its star-studded shareholders' meeting, including a troupe of acrobats, a band of Brazilian drummers and Joss Stone.

Wal-Mart's chief executive, Lee Scott, acknowledged the challenges facing the cut-price retailer's customers by referring to the company's late founder, Sam Walton. "I wonder if Sam ever could have imagined a day when oil would cost $130 a barrel or when milk would cost more than $4 a gallon?" he asked.

A large contingent of enthusiastic Asda staff flew out from Britain to join Wal-Mart employees in the Bud Walton Arena at the University of Arkansas. Wal-Mart trumpeted its $12.9bn (£6.5bn) in global profits from 7,000 stores in 14 countries.

There was little dissent as seven shareholder resolutions were voted down, including calls for a policy to protect transsexuals against discrimination, for the establishment of a human rights committee and for an advisory "say on pay" vote on executive remuneration.

To no avail, the proponent of one resolution demanded: "Who wants Wal-Mart to be a great company? Who wants Wal-Mart to respect human rights?"

An eighth resolution, demanding that Wal-Mart loosen its notoriously strict anti-union policies to comply with the International Labour Organisation, was withdrawn by supporters including the British investment firm F&C after Wal-Mart offered to join a dialogue on the issue.

Scott, who has presided over a softening of the company's once highly conservative image, made it clear that engagement was the firm's new watchword. "We all have to work together &mdash; businesses, governments and non-governmental organisations," he said. "People's expectations of us &mdash; and of corporations in general &mdash; have changed."

Wal-Mart is aggressively pushing its environmental initiatives, which include rainwater harvesting at its superstores, cutting back on plastic packaging and a scheme to help customers recycle electronics. But inflation remains an issue. Soaring global prices for staple commodities have prompted Wal-Mart to squeeze its food suppliers even more tightly by demanding cuts in transport costs.

Jack Sinclair, the firm's vice-president for groceries, said that in some cases Wal-Mart was buying fruit and vegetables more locally to reduce logistics expenses.

"It's a very tough economy &mdash; customers are clearly under a lot of pressure with their gas prices and grocery bills," he said. "We're working very hard with our vendors to make sure the impact of commodity prices isn't passed on."

Wal-Mart's shares soared to a four-year high this week on a belief that the company can benefit as customers "trade down" to cheaper food. The firm beat expectations with a 3.9% rise in like-for-like sales in May, aided by cashing thousands of tax rebate cheques issued under the Bush administration's economic surplus plan.

Recent innovations at US stores include a Father's Day greetings card in which children can record a message in their own voices, televisions with organic LEDs and improved ready meals to cater for "staycations" as cash-strapped Americans remain at home for the summer.

Customers at Wal-Mart stores in nations such as El Salvador, Costa Rica and Guatemala have been altering their diets to cope. "There may be some substitution between grains and between bread and tortilla and between meat and poultry," said Ignacio Pérez, head of Wal-Mart's central American operations. "We're watching very carefully how that evolves."

In the US, a run on rice recently prompted Wal-Mart to ration sales to four large sacks per person. The firm is willing to limit allocations of other foods if necessary, arguing that it amounts to a choice between rationing or raising prices. "If it happens again in rice or some other commodity, I think we would take the same action," said Doug McMillon, head of the company's cash-and-carry subsidiary, Sam's Club.

Wal-Mart's next initiatives include opening its first cash-and-carry warehouse in India. And an executive has been appointed to examine entry into Russia &mdash; Mike Duke, the firm's international boss, said: "We are exploring Russia and we do think there are real opportunities there."

guardian.co.uk &copy; Guardian Newspapers Limited 2008

Document GRULTD0020080606e466002e5



Wal-Mart Watch Re-releases 'A Handshake with Sam'

553 words
4 June 2008
10:16 AM
PR Newswire (U.S.)
PRN
English
Copyright ©    2008    PR Newswire Association LLC.    All Rights Reserved.          

Company still fails to live up to founder Sam Walton's ideals

WASHINGTON, June 4 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- In recognition of Wal-Mart's 2008 Annual General Meeting, Wal-Mart Watch today re-released "A Handshake with Sam." The document was originally announced in 2006 as a proposed agreement of shared principles concerning Wal-Mart's moral responsibilities based on the highly regarded ideals of its founder Sam Walton.

Each of the seven common sense Handshake principles - such as respecting human dignity, providing employees with quality affordable health care, using market power to improve rather than depress wages and buying local first - are based on business and ethical principles supported by Sam Walton's writings in his autobiography, "Made in America."

"Two years later, despite a massive public relations effort to convince people otherwise, Wal-Mart's current business practices still do not reflect Sam Walton's principles," said Wal-Mart Watch Executive Director David Nassar. "Wal-Mart still fails to pay all of its employees a family-sustaining wage; fails to ensure that all employees and their children have quality, affordable health insurance; fails to use its market power to improve supplier conditions and wages; fails to buy a significant amount of products locally; fails to pay its fair share to communities by continuing to rely on tax-payer funded programs, tax dodges and tax subsidies to inflate its bottom line, and it still faces the nation's largest workplace gender discrimination lawsuit," he added.

The 2008 Wal-Mart Shareholders' Meeting offers an opportunity for the company to address these issues. Unfortunately, Wal-Mart will opt instead for an elaborate display of celebrity performances to entertain and effectively distract its shareholders and employees. The meeting occurs just weeks after Wal-Mart was essentially shut out of America's third largest city - Chicago - because it refused to pay a higher wage.

To offset Wal-Mart's lack of substantive discussion of its business practices at the upcoming meeting, Wal-Mart Watch asked its supporters for input regarding topics they would want Wal-Mart to consider. To date, hundreds of responses have been submitted and posted on the organization's blog from concerned citizens - the majority of which requested first and foremost an honest discussion on Wal-Mart's wages, benefits, and increasing trend of overseas sourcing.

"We still believe Wal-Mart can be a positive market force if the company returns to Sam Walton's principles," said Nassar.

Click here for a full downloadable version of "A Handshake With Sam:" http://walmartwatch.com/img/blog/handshake_with_sam.pdf

Click here for Wal-Mart Watch's complete coverage of Wal-Mart's 2008 Annual General Meeting: http://walmartwatch.com/blog/cat/shareholders_meeting

Wal-Mart Watch, a non-profit group based in Washington, DC, was founded in December 2004. Its mission is to reform Wal-Mart's business practices and help improve Wal-Mart as a neighbor, employer, and corporate citizen. Learn more at http://www.walmartwatch.com.

Paid for by WalmartWatch.com, a campaign of Five Stones and The Center for Community and Corporate Ethics

SOURCE Wal-Mart Watch

Stacie Lock Temple of Wal-Mart Watch, +1-202-557-7482, +1-202-739-1020      

200806041116PR_NEWS_USPR_____DC24258.xml      

Document PRN0000020080604e464006si



Wal-Mart settles whistleblower case, terms not disclosed

222 words
20 May 2008
10:40 AM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2008.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. (AP) - An employee in Wal-Mart's labor relations department has settled her discrimination lawsuit with the world's largest retailer.

Rita Miles sued in 2006, saying she was harassed and given poor evaluation scores because she refused to shred documents relating to the investigation of Tom Coughlin, a former vice chairman convicted of fraud.

The terms of the settlement filed Friday in U.S. District court in Fayetteville weren't disclosed. The suit was dismissed with prejudice, meaning it cannot be refiled.

Miles' suit against Wal-Mart Stores Inc. claims that the Bentonville-based retailer violated the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, passed by Congress in 2002 after corporate scandals at Enron Corp., WorldCom Inc. and other companies.

The suit claimed that Miles was told to destroy hard copies of documents relating to the investigation of Coughlin, who has been sentenced to home detention after pleading guilty to stealing money, merchandise and gift cards from the retailer.

Wal-Mart has said that the company kept copies of all documents requested by the U.S. Department of Justice subpoena in the Coughlin case.

Dauphne Moore, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart, wouldn't say whether Miles was still employed at Wal-Mart.

"The case has been settled and the terms are confidential," she said.

7      

Document APRS000020080520e45k002j0



Wal-Mart settles whistleblower case, terms not disclosed

221 words
20 May 2008
10:27 AM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2008.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. (AP) - An employee in Wal-Mart's Labor Relations Department has settled her discrimination lawsuit with the world's largest retailer.

Rita Miles sued in 2006, saying she was harassed and given poor evaluation scores because she refused to shred documents relating to the investigation of Tom Coughlin, a former vice chairman convicted of fraud.

The terms of the settlement filed Friday in federal court in Fayetteville weren't disclosed. The suit was dismissed with prejudice, meaning it cannot be refiled.

Miles' suit against Wal-Mart Stores Inc. claims that the Bentonville-based retail giant violated the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, passed by Congress in 2002 after corporate scandals at Enron Corp., WorldCom Inc. and other companies.

The suit claimed that Miles was told to destroy hard copies of documents relating to the investigation of Coughlin, who has been sentenced to home detention after pleading guilty to stealing money, merchandise and gift cards from the retailer.

Wal-Mart has said that the company kept copies of all documents requested by the U.S. Department of Justice subpoena in the Coughlin case.

Dauphne Moore, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart, wouldn't say whether Miles was still employed at Wal-Mart.

"The case has been settled and the terms are confidential," she said.

7      

Document APRS000020080520e45k001we



Mexico's Stocks Close Higher; IPC Index Up 0.8%

By Anthony Harrup      
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES      
352 words
13 May 2008
03:47 PM
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.      

MEXICO CITY (Dow Jones)--Mexico's stocks closed higher Tuesday after three losing sessions, with gains in shares of broadcaster Televisa (TV) and phone company Telmex (TV) offsetting losses by wireless giant America Movil (MAMX).

The IPC index of 35 most-traded issues rose 0.8% or 250.04 points to 30,887.40. Volume was 190 million shares worth 6.42 billion ($623 million).

The local market continued somewhat detached from movements in the U.S., where equities fell on investor concerns about rising oil prices.

Among the gainers, Telmex L shares closed up 0.5% to MXN20.07, retailer Wal-Mart de Mexico (WMMVY) V shares rose 1.2% to MXN44.32, and Televisa CPO shares rose 2.2% to MXN54.54.

Mexico's antitrust commission said it approved Televisa's acquisition of a 49% stake in cable TV operator Cablemas after Televisa met the conditions that the commission had set, which included Televisa offering its content to other TV distributors on non-discriminatory terms.

Televisa, Mexico's largest broadcaster, has been boosting its presence in the cable TV market through acquisitions, and last year began adding telephone service to its cable and broadband Internet services.

Chemicals concern Mexichem (MEXCHEM.MX) shares rose 4.4% to MXN88.50. The company's shares have risen sharply in recent sessions as it pursues expansion opportunities at home and abroad through acquisitions, and has said it's considering a joint-venture in North America. Several investment banks recently raised their price targets for the shares.

IPC heavyweight America Movil (AMX) L shares fell 0.1% to MXN29.80, and copper miner Grupo Mexico (GFMEXICO.MX) B shares closed down 0.4% at MXN75.22.

Silver miner Penoles (PE&OLES.MX) shares rose 2.9% to MXN314.85. Last week Penoles raised $1.77 billion as it listed silver mining unit Fresnillo on the London stock market.

-By Anthony Harrup, Dow Jones Newswires; (5255) 5001 5727, anthony.harrup@dowjones.com [ 13-05-08 2047GMT ]

5047      

Document DJI0000020080513e45d00157



Q1 2009 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Pre-Recorded Earnings Conference Call - Final

7,406 words
13 May 2008
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
FNDW
English
© Voxant Inc. All rights reserved.          

OPERATOR: Thank you for calling Wal-Mart Stores Inc. first-quarter earnings call for fiscal year 2009. This call is the property of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and intended solely for the use of Wal-Mart shareholders. It should not be reproduced in any way.

This call will contain statements that Wal-Mart believes are forward-looking statements within the meeting of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as amended and intended to enjoy the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the use of the words or phrases expect, forecast, may take, should kick in, will continue and will remain or a variation of one of those words or phrases in those statements or by the use of words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, descriptions of our objectives, plans, goals, targets or expectations are forward-looking statements.

These statements discuss among other things our anticipated U.S. comparable store sales for the current fiscal quarter and our anticipated earnings per share for the current fiscal quarter; our anticipated tax rate for the fiscal year 2009 and the factors that may impact that tax rate; our expectation that high transportation costs will be an expense headwind for the remainder of the year; our forecast for our capital expenditures for fiscal year 2009; our expectation that the long-term projects to enhance our information systems for merchandising, finance and human resources will continue to be an expense headwind for the rest of fiscal year 2009; our expectations that there will be challenging macroeconomic environment in which we will operate for the remainder of the year; our expectation that higher fuel costs will be an expense headwind for our Wal-Mart Stores U.S. segment for the remainder of the year; our expectation for the time necessary to fully implement new technology resources across the entire store in our Wal-Mart Stores U.S. segment; our expectation that the home category in our Wal-Mart Stores U.S. segment will continue to be pressured by weakness in the housing market; our expectation that with help from the weather the apparel category and our seasonal business in our Wal-Mart Stores U.S. segment should kick into high gear; our expectation that the United Kingdom will remain at challenging economy in retail market for the rest of the year; our expectation that the acquisition and retention of member will remain a focus of our Sam's Club segment throughout fiscal year 2009; and the anticipation and expectations of Wal-Mart and its management as to future occurrences and trends.

These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors domestically and internationally including the cost of goods, competitive pressures, general economic conditions, consumer credit availability, inflation, consumer spending patterns in debt levels, currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, fluctuations in the cost of gasoline, diesel fuel and other energy, transportation, utilities, labor and health care, accident costs, casualty and other insurance costs, interest rate fluctuations, capital market conditions, geopolitical conditions and events, weather conditions, storm-related damage to our facilities, regulatory matters and other risks.

We discuss certain of these matters more fully in our filings with the SEC including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and the information on this call should be read in conjunction with that annual report on Form 10-K and together with all our other filings including current reports on Form 8-K we have made with the SEC through the date of this call. We urge you to consider all these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements we make in this call. As a result of these factors, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from anticipated results, expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.

The forward-looking statements made in this call are made on and as of the date of this call and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.

The comp store sales for our total U.S. operations and for our Sam's Club segment discussed on this call exclude the impact of fuel sales in our Sam's Club segment. That measure, our return on investment, free cash flow and cash flow from operations to average debt as discussed in this call may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are available for review on the investor relations portion of our corporate website at www.walmartstores.com/investors.

CAROL SCHUMACHER, VP OF IR, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Welcome to the Wal-Mart Stores Inc. first-quarter earnings call for fiscal year 2009. This is Carol Schumacher, Vice President of Investor Relations. The replay of this call and related materials about the quarter are available on our website.

Here is the agenda for today's call. Lee Scott, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. President and CEO will provide comments about the Company's overall performance and perspective about the global economy. Tom Schoewe, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will add further detail regarding our financial results. Eduardo Castro-Wright, President and Chief Executive Officer of Wal-Mart U.S. will provide the update on our U.S. stores business and the details of results for the quarter. Mike Duke, Vice Chairman for Wal-Mart International will have an update on the strategy for international and results including more details on the results of some of our larger countries. Charles Holley, Executive Vice President Finance and Treasurer, will review the results of Sam's Club and Tom will come back and close with guidance for the second quarter of this fiscal year.

As a reminder, we consolidate and report on our business the following ways. First, comparable store sales and our monthly sales releases are reported on the retail calendar 4-5-4 basis for the U.S. operations. Comparable store sales as we report today and in all earnings releases are on a calendar basis. Countries in Wal-Mart International are on a calendar basis and sales are pegged to local currencies. Canada and Puerto Rico report on the same calendar as the United States operations which means that our first quarter runs from February 1 through April 30. All other countries in Wal-Mart International report on the regular calendar basis meaning the first-quarter news we are reporting today represents results from January 1 through March 31.

This year, the first quarter includes the benefit of one extra day, February 29, due to 2008 being a leap year. In addition, the store counts and square footage updates through the first quarter are available on our website, www.walmart stores.com/investors. We also have the detail on our metrics on return on investment, return on assets, cash flow to average debt and free cash flow posted there under reconciliation and financial measures.

Now let's get onto the news about Wal-Mart's first quarter of fiscal 2009. Lee?

LEE SCOTT, PRESIDENT AND CEO, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Thank you, Carol, and welcome everyone. We appreciate your interest in the Company. First, let me apologize for my voice that it is allergy season in Arkansas. It may cause me to sound less excited than I am about our results of this quarter.

But I want to start thanking our more than 2 million Wal-Mart associates around the world for their dedication to our mission, saving people money so they can live better. We continue to deliver against the business model that Sam Walton started, selling branded merchandise for less. Our business model is even more relevant today given the current economic pressures. Customers everywhere are concerned about the rising energy costs, food inflation, home values and a number of other factors tied to the global economy.

Wal-Mart customers value our price leadership more than ever, especially as they try to stretch their money further. As I travel around the world, it is gratifying to see how Wal-Mart continues to help people save money. With more than 7300 locations, we are having a significant impact on the quality of life of millions of customers and Sam's Club members.

So how did we do for the quarter? We are very pleased with the results for our first quarter of fiscal 2009. We're off to a solid start. We again delivered record sales and earnings for our shareholders. First-quarter's net sales totaled more than $94 billion, an increase of 10.2% for Wal-Mart Stores Inc. from the prior fiscal year's first quarter. Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.76 per share, up from $0.68 per share for last year's first-quarter. Net income rose about 7% from the prior year. As always Tom Schoewe will cover additional details on the numbers.

One thing that our customers appreciate everywhere is that Wal-Mart is the undisputed price leader. We have been very clear in communicating our commitment to price leadership and we are pleased to see the analysts and the media reporting on it.

The result of our pricing strategy, the quality of our merchandise and the strong operational execution have been solid around the world. This was validated by the comparable stores sales figures and the 9.8% sales increase for the Company in April that we just reported this last Thursday.

Our U.S. business has solid momentum. The team under Eduardo Castro-Wright is fully aligned to deliver against its mission Save Money, Live Better. Two years ago, the team embarked on a plan to improve the business. The integration of operations, merchandising, marketing and communications is very evident. Sales are up, inventories are down significantly contributing to better profits. Customers are telling us how much more they enjoy shopping at our Wal-Mart Stores.

In fact, the hard work of our U.S. associates has paid off through our bonus program. We recently announced that the Company shared almost $1.2 billion with our hourly associates in Wal-Mart U.S. and Sam's Club through our profit-sharing and other benefit programs. We believe in rewarding our associates who make the difference for our customers and our shareholders.

I'm enthusiastic about the role of our international business and how important it is to our future growth. Wal-Mart International, under Mike Duke is well positioned to deliver increases in profits and return on investment. Our teams are leveraging global practices and processes to benefit the growth of International. We have multiple formats in our 14 markets all of which served the customers very well.

But what drive sales in these markets is the local approach. Let's take the Changomas format for example. This new store in Argentina designed to serve the low income grocery customer is modeled after the very successful Bodaga format in Mexico. In Canada, our Supercenter expansion program incorporates some of the best ideas from the United States and our other countries to strengthen our retail presence across the country.

I know there's a lot of interest in our move to take Seiyu private. We're even more convinced now that it's the right direction for the long term. We have tested EDLP, everyday low price, in two regions in Japan. The customers have responded to it very positively. Now I would remind you that our turnaround plan is a long-term plan. The commitment to Wal-Mart Japan is the kind of commitment the Company made in the past in markets like Canada and Mexico that have paid off over time.

Value is as important as it has ever been to our small businesses and consumers right now. Just as our customers are concerned about high gas prices, small businesses are under pressure as well. The success that Sam's Club has in serving small businesses and individuals and their families is highlighted by the very fact that they celebrated their 25th anniversary this year. Doug McMillon and his team are working hard to expand the membership franchise by attracting and retaining even more Club members.

All of this is good news. However, there are still uncertainties about the rest of the year. As I said during the call recapping the fourth quarter of last year, the economy is playing a critical factor in 2008. While there is potential for short-term impact from the stimulus checks in the United States, it is currently difficult to quantify what impact this money could have on Wal-Mart's sales. That being said, I remain optimistic about the rest of this year. Customers are focusing on food and daily use items. They want to be able to celebrate events like Mother's Day and Father's Day at home with a barbecue grill or some video games.

Beyond the day-to-day management of our business, Wal-Mart is also committed to continuing our contributions to society. When I meet with legislators, civic leaders or other business executives, they are interested in our Company and how we are helping our customers during these tough economic times. But they also want to hear more about the progress we are making on areas such as sustainability. They're excited about the $4 prescription drug program and the impact it is having on reducing healthcare costs for so many people. In fact, I hope that you saw the news recently about the expansion of our prescription program. Our customers and our elected leaders appreciate that Wal-Mart is stepping up to be part of the solution on important issues.

I look forward to seeing many of you at our shareholders meeting in Northwest Arkansas on June 6th. Tom Schoewe will now cover more details about the financial results. Thomas?

TOM SCHOEWE, EVP AND CFO, WAL-MART STORES, INC..: Lee, thank you very much. We would also like to thank you for joining us to hear more news about Wal-Mart's start to fiscal 2009. As Lee said, we had a strong quarter. Total net sales for the Company were $94.1 billion. That's up 10.2%. In addition, U.S. comp store sales were 2.9% and that is without fuel in the first quarter. That is above the range of flat to 2% that we had forecasted for the quarter. More important, the 2.9% comp for this quarter is the strongest quarterly comparable store sales performance for the U.S. business in eight quarters.

Operating income was up 9.5% with income before taxes and minority interest for the first quarter increasing 8%. Diluted earnings per share were $0.76. That's up from $0.68 per share in the first quarter of last year.

Just the quick reminder about two items we booked last year that influenced the year-to-year comparisons, one favorable and one unfavorable. The Wal-Mart Stores and Sam's Club segments operating income included the favorable impact of an excise tax refund on prior phonecard sales, $46 million for Wal-Mart and $39 million for Sam's. Second, we recorded a charge of approximately $73 million for Wal-Mart and $10 million for Sam's because of accruals for legal and other contingencies.

Now let's look at our consolidated results. Consolidated gross margin was up 11 basis points for the first quarter due primarily to the stronger performance of the Wal-Mart U.S. business. Higher transportation costs will remain a potential headwind for the rest of the year. Inventory management continues to be a great story. Recall that this is one of our five financial metrics that support our focus on driving free cash flow. Our goal is for inventory to increase at half of the rate of our sales growth.

Consolidated inventories were up only 1% against a year-to-date sales increase of 10.2%. Payables as a percentage of inventories for the Company were 81.7% at the end of the first quarter which is up from the 78.3% we reported last year. Other income was up 15.4% for the first quarter over last year. Recall that other income includes Sam's Club membership revenue, tenant lease income, financial services, recycling income and the gain on certain real estate transactions. Financial services had another strong performance. I will leave that discussion to Eduardo Castro-Wright.

Consolidated operating expenses as a percentage of sales were up approximately 21 basis points over last year due to higher utility costs, coupled with higher repairs and maintenance. Corporate expenses were up approximately 20% from the first quarter of fiscal 2008 due primarily to our investment in "transformation programs". Recall that during the fourth quarter call we explained our long-term transformation projects to enhance the information systems for merchandising, finance and human resources. These will continue to be a headwind for the rest of this fiscal year and for several years to come. Without the transformation projects, the corporate operating area would be up by only 3%.

And now we'll detail the status on interest expense, our tax rate and our debt levels. Interest expense was up 27% over last year's first quarter due to higher debt levels resulting from increased share repurchase activity during the past few quarters. Our tax rate for the quarter was 34.7%. We expect the tax rate for fiscal 2009 to be between 34% and 35%, although we will see some quarterly fluctuation. Factors which may affect our rate include changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies and the mix of international to domestic income.

Debt to total capitalization was 43.2% at the end of the first quarter of this fiscal year above the 41.3% rate at the same time last year. Our cash flow from operations to average debt was approximately 40%.

We reported continued progress with our capital efficiency model. Our cash flow statement reflects payments for capital spending or CapEx, of approximately $2.4 billion during the first quarter. This represents a decrease of approximately 22% from last year. Our forecast for capital spending for fiscal 2009 continues to be between $13.5 billion and $15.2 billion.

ROI from continuing operations for the trailing 12 months ended April 30, 2008 is 19% and compares to 19.5% that we reported in the same period last year. Some portion of this decline resulted from the increase in cash balances at the quarter end. Subsequent to the quarter end, much of that debt was paid down.

During the first quarter, we repurchased approximately $1.3 billion of our stock which represented approximately 25.4 million shares. Under our current $15 billion share repurchase facility, we still have the authority to repurchase approximately $7 billion of additional shares.

Earlier I mentioned one of our five key financial metrics that support our focus on driving free cash flow. That was meeting our goal of growing inventories at or less than half the rate of the sales growth. We have a good story there. Let me wrap up with some feedback on the rest of the report card.

We achieved one other goal, payables growing faster than inventories. We continue to be in the plus side here now five quarters in row. We do have some "opportunities" in other areas, growing operating income greater than sales. I'm encouraged by the progress we are making especially in a tougher economic environment.

The next is growing operating income greater than the increase in costs for property, plant and equipment. While we continued to see progress in our operating results, capital spending continues to place pressure on the denominator. We have consistently forecasted that this improvement will take some time.

And last, corporate expenses growing less than our sales growth. As I mentioned earlier, we have a multiyear commitment to improving our systems for merchandising, finance and the people division, so this will continue to be a headwind for a while. Without the investment in these projects, the corporate operating area would have grown far less than sales.

Finally, you might ask, where are we on free cash flow? We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities less CapEx. The Company generated free cash flow of $1.3 billion in Q1 this fiscal year. At the end of the first quarter last year, we had a free cash flow deficit of $1.3 billion due mainly to our higher consolidated inventory position.

With that, I'd like to turn it over to Eduardo Castro-Wright who will share the fine results in our Wal-Mart U.S. business. Eduardo?

EDUARDO CASTRO-WRIGHT, PRESIDENT AND CEO, U.S. STORES, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Thanks, Tom. Let me outline what I will cover today. First, we will start with comparable store sales performance. This is the second consecutive quarter where comparable store sales performance outpaced the market across key business units. We did well against mass discounters, against largest national grocery chains, drugstore chains, and consumer electronics retailers. We also saw improved performance in apparel relative to other leading retailers.

Second, our price leadership position. We continued to expand price caps across the entire store. Third, we have a very good inventory story. Our lean inventory position has helped drive gross margin and enhance profitability. Very importantly, it provides the flexibility to continue to drive price leadership at the time when consumers are very price conscious.

And last, our customer service scores are the highest level ever. We are faster at the checkout, our associates are friendlier and our stores are cleaner.

Why are our results strong? We are executing very well against our plan and Wal-Mart U.S. is very well positioned to serve the needs of customers today. And our entire team is completely aligned behind our mission. We save people money so they can live better.

I'm not only pleased with the results we have delivered for the first quarter but I am cautiously optimistic about the rest of the year. The macroeconomic environment will continue to be challenging but our business is very well positioned to compete in this environment.

So let's start with our results for the first quarter. Total net sales for Wal-Mart U.S. for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 were $59.1 billion, up 6.6% from the prior year. Comparable store sales for Wal-Mart U.S. were 2.7% for the quarter. This is the best comp performance for Wal-Mart U.S. in eight quarters. This comp was driven for the first time in a very long time by positive traffic as well as by a 2.4% increase in average ticket.

Gross margin dollars increased 7.7% for the first quarter, faster than the rate of sales. Gross margin as a percentage of sales was up 27 basis points driven by the results of our leaner, more efficient inventory management processes. We continue to see progress in inventory performance. We are more than $1 billion below our plan for inventory for the first quarter of the fiscal year and experienced a decrease in inventory from last year of more than 2% on sales growth of 6.6%.

And leaner inventories led to reduced shrink, a reduction in markdowns, and higher productivity. Shrink was down 8 basis points versus last year. Markdowns were down more than 30 basis points for the quarter on a year-over-year basis. Operating profit grew faster than sales and was up 9.6% over the same period last year. Total expenses as a percentage of sales were flat with our plan this quarter up 23 basis points year-over-year. This is a good result given the pressure we have in a number of areas.

As expected, higher fuel costs are driving significant increases in utilities, transportation and commodities. We have put many initiatives in place to help lessen the pressure from increased transportation costs. However, we do expect higher fuel costs to be a headwind for the remainder of this year.

When all is said and done, these higher expensed pressures were offset by improvements in productivity at our stores and our distribution centers. One of the largest expense increases in the first quarter that accounts for most of the year-over-year variance is related to increases in bonuses for store associates linked to improved business performance. Bonuses are paid on a quarterly basis and I'm happy to see that expense line grow.

We are very focused on improving our store productivity. We've introduced a lot of technology in the supply chain in the front end which allows us to deploy resources better across the entire store. This may take more than a year to fully implement but we are starting to realize the benefits of matching associate schedules more closely with customer traffic patterns.

We continue to strengthen our efforts on improving the most important customer service metrics. Every month we survey between 500,000 and 1 million customers in our stores. This is one of the most robust, reliable customer surveys you will find anywhere in the industry. Customer experience scores were at their highest level since we started the survey. Our stores continue to improve.

For example in our West division, the number of stores scoring in the bottom quartile on our fast, friendly and clean attributes decreased by one-third from a year ago. Our grocery, our health and wellness and our entertainment businesses are very strong while apparel is already recovering and it's being driven by the very successful introduction late last year of our express for less initiative and our emphasis on price points of $10 or less.

The home business will continue to be pressured by the weakness in the housing market. The hard lines category has continued to be challenged by unfavorable weather. However, a major component of that business is seasonal events and I'm pleased to report that we performed well during Valentines, Easter and this past weekend for Mother's Day.

Consumers are making choices. We know that credit as a form of payment at Wal-Mart has been declining since the third quarter last fiscal year. Customers are faced with the results of a tougher economy, higher gas prices, food inflation and the increase in the overall cost of living. The paycheck cycle is more pronounced as things get tighter for customers toward the end of the month.

Customers meet their basic needs first and then they become more discriminating. Wal-Mart is there to help and the results are reflected in the market share gains we have seen in categories like electronics. Customers do shop for things they want, not just what they need. They are making room for entertainment products especially as they stay home more often.

We continue to see inflation in food and consumables. Energy is a major contributor to this. Therefore, price matters even more than it did last year. That is why we continue to look for innovative ways to provide savings for our customers. Our recent advertising circular featured new $10 meal solutions which offer alternatives to more expensive meals eaten outside the home. In store end caps also will support this concept and just recently Wal-Mart launched Phase 3 of the prescription program which included a $10 price point for a 90-day prescription, additional women's health medicines and new $4 over-the-counter medicines.

In the first quarter, financial services continued its strong growth trend with product income showing significant double-digit growth over the last year. A large portion of the increase came from four products, check cashing, money transfers, product warranties and the Wal-Mart money card. Growth is being further supported by the addition of close to 270 Wal-Mart money centers this year bringing the total to 460.

The combination of our integrated improvements in merchandising, operations, marketing, and brand communication all add to the overall positive story for the first quarter. We launched several new television ads that further reinforce our Save Money, Live Better position.

Before I close, let me recap our highlights for the first quarter. We are winning in four of our six business units representing over 75% of total sales. We are making progress in apparel and with help from the weather, this business unit and our seasonal business should kick into high gear. Our customer traffic is positive for the first time in a very long time. Our investment in price has helped increase the gap with key competitors. Inventory management and operating efficiencies have helped drive the price leadership position and drop some of the profit to the bottom line.

Expenses are on plan and slightly ahead of last year. And our inventory will continue to run very lean. The benefits in shrink, markdowns and productivity can be expected to continue.

We've now begun the second quarter. We know the foundation laid during the past couple of years put us in a good position for the current environment and for the future. Our underlying business is solid. As I said in our April sales release on Thursday, it is still difficult to accurately forecast what impact the stimulus checks will have on U.S. consumer spending. However, we are cautiously optimistic about the immediate future and believe we are very well positioned when the economy turns around.

Now I will turn it over to Mike for Wal-Mart International.

MIKE DUKE, VICE CHAIR, INTERNATIONAL, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Thanks, Eduardo. We have closed the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 with strong results reflecting our strategic focus and future growth prospects in Wal-Mart International.

Let me start today by briefly discussing recent developments in Brazil, India, and Russia. These highlight one of our three key strategies, portfolio optimization which means that we place our capital where it will have the highest long-term returns. We are very pleased that we are starting to see some of our long run investments pay off.

Many analysts and investors recently returned from a trip to our Brazil operations where we discussed Wal-Mart's opportunities in that market. Brazil is a large opportunity for us due to population and GDP growth, positive sales trends and EBIT improvements in our acquisitions. Brazil also is a great example of an emerging market in our portfolio that is starting to hit its stride in market leadership and growth potential.

In India, we've now opened our first distribution center to support Barti's direct-to-consumer retail operations as our franchisee. Barti opened three small stores in April. We are pleased with the start up of our business in India and we are confident that there is significant untapped demand from modern retail there. We look forward to further supporting our partner and franchisee, Barti, in their growth plans for this emerging market.

Over the last quarter, we've taken active steps to begin our exploration of opportunities in Russia and in neighboring markets in Eastern Europe. Our research indicates that this area provides many opportunities for Wal-Mart to create value by serving the emerging middle class and bringing to those markets our best practices in the supply chain and operational efficiency.

Now let's move to the specifics of Wal-Mart International's first-quarter performance. International net sales for the first quarter were $23.9 billion. That is a 22% increase over the prior year. The impact of currency valuation on sales generated a benefit of $1.3 billion driven by strengthening across most currencies notably the Canadian dollar and the Brazilian real.

Our strongest underlying sales performance in the quarter came from China, including Trust-Mart and Brazil with a solid performance in Canada. Wal-Mex and ASDA also delivered healthy sales despite tough economic conditions in those countries. Also contributing to the sales increase was the timing of the Trust-Mart acquisition last February.

Segment operating income for the first quarter was $1.0 billion, up 15.6%. Gross margin for the segment was down slightly versus the first quarter last year largely because of price investment in Japan and a mix shift in favor of fuel in the UK. Operating expenses as a percentage of segment sales were flat to the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Contributing to this were strong underlying improvements in the United Kingdom, Japan and Mexico offset by accruals for certain legal matters.

Operating income grew slower than sales because of the timing of property sales at Gazeley, our property development business in the UK and the accruals for legal matters. The first quarter impact of currency valuation on operating income was a benefit of $46 million.

Now onto the larger countries results. ASDA has continued to win in the United Kingdom delivering a strong first quarter with 30 basis points of market share growth despite a challenging economic environment. Excluding the positive impact from fuel, sales growth was in the high single digits, comp sales grew 6.4% and were impacted by Easter and a leap day. Excluding the benefit of these events, comp sales grew 5% driven equally by traffic and ticket.

In food, the fastest-growing areas reflect in-store activity particularly around seasonal events and include wine, flowers and confectionary. Despite the challenges of the market, Extra Special, ASDA's premium brand is the fastest-growing private label, up over 30% year on year. This is a reflection of improvement in product assortment and quality. Sales of SmartPrice, ASDA's opening price point private-label brands are also growing strongly.

In general merchandise, the fastest-growing departments were mobile phones where ASDA is gaining market share and computer and video games. George performed ahead of the market supported by strong children's clothing performance and the launch of two new brands, targeted at the classic core customer, Boston Crew and Moda.

Operating income at ASDA was impacted by a charge for the closure of 12 George High Street stores and the timing of Gazeley property sales. Excluding these items, ASDA operating income grew marginally faster than sales.

Although we expect the UK to remain a challenging economy and retail market during the rest of the year, ASDA believes that its strong pricing agenda backed by a cost reduction program leaves it well-positioned to continue to gain market share there.

In Mexico, the economic downturn continued to impact sales in the first quarter and our business there faced a tough year-over-year comparison. However, our management team views this as an opportunity to differentiate, to become more relevant to the consumer and to continue building customer trust and loyalty.

Total sales at Wal-Mex for the first quarter were up 14.4% while comp sales grew 8% in nominal terms. The sales increase was driven by a 14.4% increase in customer count. Although average ticket remains a concern, our management team is focused on achieving its goals without relying on significant increase in ticket. This demonstrates very well their flexibility and ability to anticipate customer needs and limited resources. Wal-Mex exemplifies Wal-Mart's commitment to saving people money so they can live better.

Continuing prior quarter's trends, self-service formats in Mexico had increases in customer count while our higher margin apparel and restaurant formats had declines. This led to a gross margin that was flat to last year. Successful cost control measures allowed Wal-Mex operating income to grow faster than sales. This result is despite expenses from the start up of our bank in Mexico.

In Canada, total sales grew 9.9% for the first quarter while comp sales increased by 4%. In Canada, we continue to grow market share at an accelerated pace, sales were strongest in electronics on the strength of gaming and computers while the core pantry and our Supercenter expansion program drove food growth. Comp sales benefited from leap year by 0.7 percentage points. Seasonal business in Canada performed well.

We opened our first Supercenter in British Columbia in April bringing the total to 32 stores since our launch. In the first quarter, Canada's gross margin and operating income increased faster than sales due in part to foreign currency gain on imports. Canada is maintaining expenses as a percentage of sales despite the pressure brought by higher fuel costs.

Total sales for Brazil in real terms are up 14.5% with the strongest performance in our low income formats Todo Dia and Maxi. Increases in both traffic and average ticket helped to deliver this outstanding performance. Comps sales in Brazil were also very strong at 9.2% in real terms outperforming our key competitors. Best of all, we have maintained gross margin year-over-year while investing in price leadership and taking markdowns to reduce inventory.

Expenses as a percentage of sales have decreased year-over-year due to leveraging fixed costs. Without the impact of currency, operating income has grown significantly since the first quarter of last year. Comp sales in Japan grew 1.6% in the first quarter, the first positive comp figure in five quarters. Comps were driven by 1.9% increase in customer traffic triggered by investments intended to establish price leadership. Gross margin has declined slightly because of these efforts.

Our improvements in productivity for both stores and home office including our fourth-quarter restructuring resulted in expenses being down more than 100 basis points. These savings allow us to make the price investments that are key to our strategy. Our first-quarter operating loss was slight and essentially flat to the first-quarter last year.

Comp sales in our traditional Wal-Mart China businesses, Supercenters, neighborhood markets and Sam's Club increased 22.7% for the first quarter, during which three new Supercenters opened. Aggressive advertising promotions have enhanced Wal-Mart's price leadership image and improved our communication with customers. This and other expense saving efforts led to operating income in the traditional businesses that increased faster than sales.

At Wal-Mart China's Trust-Mart business, comp sales grew 18.8% driven by strong customer traffic and average ticket from our tab promotions. Food inflation impacted sales at our China businesses.

Now I'll turn the microphone over to Charles for the update on Sam's Clubs. Charles?

CHARLES HOLLEY, EVP AND TREASURER, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Thank you, Mike. For the first quarter, Sam's Club's sales were $11.1 billion. That's an increase of 7.6%. Comparable club sales excluding all fuel sales increased by 3.6%. Both traffic and ticket without fuel increased in comparable Clubs for the quarter. Strong categories during the quarter included dry grocery and consumables.

From a general merchandise perspective, Sam's Club had strengths in video games, office supplies and residential furniture. Furniture was positively impacted by product quality improvements and a new approach to presentation in the Clubs. Electronics drove mid single digit comps but we have seen a relative softening of television sales.

Housewares and apparel were soft throughout the quarter. Spring and summer seasonal sales have been mixed with softer sales in outdoor furniture offset in part by stronger performance in the grills and gardening categories.

The gross margin rate was down due to the $39 million excise tax refund recorded in the prior year quarter. Membership income continues to be behind plan in dollars. Acquisition and retention will remain a focus at Sam's Club throughout the year, especially as Sam's Club has now fully cycled the impact of the January 2006 membership fee increase on a deferred revenue recognition basis.

Programs such as invoice comparisons for small business prospects during National Small Business Week and the 25th anniversary celebration which highlighted values for Advantage members, have shown initial success and driving new member acquisition and bringing existing Sam's Club members to the Club for additional visits.

During the first quarter, the average retail price per gallon of gasoline was $3.14 versus $2.45 a year ago. The combination of the price differential and increased gallons sold had a positive impact of 290 basis points to Sam's Club's comparable Club sales for the quarter. The growth in the low margin fuel business negatively impacted gross margin mix for the quarter.

Certain foods and consumable items, notably dairy, grains and paper products, experienced inflationary pressure in the quarter. Operating expenses grew at a slower rate than sales due to lower real estate expenses in the current quarter and the $10 million legal accrual recorded in the prior year quarter.

Operating income increased 4.3% to $386 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2009. As mentioned earlier, in the first quarter of the prior fiscal year, Sam's Club's operating income included a favorable impact of $39 million related to an excise tax refund and a charge of $10 million related to accruals for legal and other contingencies.

Sam's Club's inventory management remains strong with inventory levels at the end of the quarter down 1% versus the same period in the prior year. Similar to Wal-Mart, Sam's Club is cashing economic stimulus checks free for its members. Although the impact of the stimulus checks is difficult to predict, we believe the Sam's Club format with its compelling value is well positioned in the current economic environment to serve both small business and individuals and their families.

And now I will turn it back over to Tom for the update on guidance. Tom?

TOM SCHOEWE: Thanks, Charles. For the second quarter, we expect U.S. comp store sales to increase in the range of flat to 2%. As we said on sales day, that would be last Thursday, it's currently difficult to quantify the impact on U.S. sales that the stimulus checks may have. We expect earnings per share for the second quarter to be between $0.78 and $0.81 per share.

Before we sign off, an important reminder. Last year's second-quarter results included a benefit of approximately $0.04 per share from the net impact of a reduction of general liability and workers' compensation claim accruals, gains from the sale of certain real estate properties, and charges for legal and other contingencies. To arrive at apples-to-apples operating comparisons, these items must be considered.

That is it for today and we would like to thank all of you for your interest in Wal-Mart.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

Document FNDW000020080527e45d000rt



MarketWatch First Take
News & Commentary
These days, everybody loves Wal-Mart; Commentary: Once-loathed giant is now the struggling consumer's best friend

MarketWatch      
421 words
13 May 2008
09:35 AM
MarketWatch
MRKWC
English
Copyright 2008 MarketWatch, Inc.    All Rights Reserved.      

NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- Wal-Mart Stores Inc. has become the recessionary shopper's best friend.

The world's largest retailer posted a 7% jump in quarterly profit on Tuesday, beating Wall Street estimates, but cautioned that it's still uncertain about the rest of the year. (RELATED ARTICLE: Wal-Mart net rises 6.9%, but company cautions uncertain outlooks)

As the economy has weakened, Wal-Mart (WMT, US) has become an increasingly attractive place to shop. The easy money that came from ATM machines in the form of home-equity loans has dried up. Gas prices have soared in the past year, food is getting more expensive, and retailers are limiting sales of staples such as rice. Job security is uncertain and the credit and equity markets have been shaky.

Wal-Mart, with its promise of few frills and low prices, looks pretty good right now. Shares are up about 20% year to date. How quickly things have changed.

Less than two years ago, Wal-Mart was dealing with a serious image problem.

The company was derided for its obsession with low prices, by critics who charged that the low prices came at the expense of things like employee health care. It was grappling with accusations that it mistreated workers and discriminated against women.

It was denounced for squeezing suppliers for the lowest possible prices. Large scale anti-Wal-Mart campaigns sprouted up in areas where the company wanted to build a store, with local residents protesting the mega-chain for hurting small businesses.

Domestic sales growth slumped and its attempts to offer pricier merchandise and lure well-heeled bargain hunters were lackluster.

People seem to care a little bit less about those issues now as they focus on keeping their family fed and the wolf away from the door.

On a conference call, executives said they weren't sure how the government stimulus checks will impact the company, aside from a short-term benefit.

But they do see more pressure in the prices of food and other consumables, thanks to higher energy prices and Eduardo Castro-Wright, head of Wal-Mart's U.S. business said the "macroeconomic environment will continue to be challenging."

That can only draw more shoppers to Wal-Mart.

-- Angela Moore, U.S. commentary editor

NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- Wal-Mart Stores Inc. has become the recessionary shopper's best friend.|103      

Document MRKWC00020080513e45d002s1

Search Summary

 All of these words

     At least one of these words
discrimination discriminatory discriminate discriminates discriminated discriminating harassment
     None of these words

     This exact phrase

     Date
05/10/2008 to 07/09/2008
     Source
All Sources
     Author
All Authors
     Company
Walmart Inc
     Subject
All Subjects
     Industry
All Industries
     Region
All Regions
     Language
English
     Results Found
18
     Timestamp
16 June 2023 8:30 AM
    
