 
•	Walmart counters claim of sexual inequity
•	Supreme Court skeptical of Wal-Mart bias case, Charlotte Observer reports
•	Wal-Mart Class Action Runs Into Stiff Resistance; JUSTICES SAY plaintiffs' argument for gender discrimination 'faces in two directions'
•	Obama Touts Energy Plan; Women Workers Sue Walmart; Drilling for Oil; Home Foreclosures
•	Justices question Wal-Mart suit
•	Wal-Mart opposes sex-bias case at class-action suit filed in the US; RETAIL
•	Supreme Court may block Wal-Mart bias lawsuit
•	Judges question Wal-Mart bias suit
•	Wal-Mart's women workers take case to US Supreme Court
•	Supreme Court Hears Wal-Mart Bias Appeal
•	Does the Wal-Mart bias case sweep in too many plaintiffs?; Does a sex discrimination class-action suit sweep in too many plaintiffs?
•	Justices question next step for massive Wal-Mart discrimination suit; Even Supreme Court justices who sharply questioned Wal-Mart...
•	Justice Antonin Scalia ticketed for GW Parkway fender-bender; will he take it to court?; His car was towed after the four-car pileup; no one injured, and he made it to the bench on time for the Wal-Mart case.
•	Court looks ready to block massive Wal-Mart sex-discrimination case Action could make it harder for other workers to bring class-action claims against large employers.
•	Wal-Mart and women employees duke it out
•	HIGH COURT HAS ITS OWN GENDER RIFT IN BIAS CASE
•	Business awaits Wal-Mart decision Business awaits Walmart decision
•	Women take on Walmart in landmark case Women take on Walmart Business awaits Walmart decision
•	Wal-Mart class action reaches US courts
•	Class Action At Wal-Mart Has Justices In Conflict
•	Justices Appear Skeptical of Certifying Class for Bias Action Against Wal-Mart
•	Wal-Mart sex-bias case hits possible court block
•	U.S. court questions big Wal-Mart sex-discrimination suit; Class action at issue; Ruling expected by June, may set precedent
•	WASHINGTON: Walmart is asking the US Supreme Court to end a massive sex...
•	Tough Sell for Plaintiffs in Wal-Mart Class Action
•	UPDATE 2-Wal-Mart launches Canada supercenter "onslaught"
•	SCOTUS To Decide If Wal-Mart Class Action Suit Is Too Large
•	Wal-Mart facing huge discrimination lawsuit
•	A protest sign against Wal-Mart with the U.S. Capitol in the background is seen while class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart is being argued inside the Supreme Court in Washington
•	Plaintiff Betty Dukes stands alone on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington
•	Wal-Mart's lead attorney Theodore Boutrous and Executive Vice President for People Gisel Ruiz speak to the press on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington
•	Attorneys for the plaintiffs in the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart, Joseph Sellers and Brad Seligman, talk to the press following their argument presented before the Supreme Court in Washington
•	Wal-Mart's lead attorney Theodore Boutrous and Executive Vice President for People Gisel Ruiz talk to the press after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington
•	Plaintiffs in the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart pose on the steps of the Supreme Court after the case was argued before the court in Washington
•	A Canadian protester holds a sign in front of Supreme Court while class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart is being argued inside the court in Washington
•	Women protesters hold signs in front of the Supreme Court while class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart is being argued inside the court in Washington
•	Protesters hold signs in front of the Supreme Court while class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart is being argued inside the court in Washington
•	Protesters rally in front of the Supreme Court while class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart is being argued inside the court in Washington
•	Plaintiff Betty Dukes talks to the press on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington
•	Plaintiff Betty Dukes speaks to the press on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington
•	Plaintiff Betty Dukes smiles on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington
•	Photos of the Day; In today's pictures, Somalis receive food, the Supreme Court hears arguments in the Wal-Mart case, cherry blossoms bloom in Washington and more.
•	Wal-Mart justices?
•	Supreme Court hears arguments in bias suit against Wal-Mart
•	Justice Voices Skepticism Over Suit Against Wal-Mart
•	US Supreme Court Hears Massive Wal Mart Discrimination Case
•	Reuters World News Highlights at 1930 IST March 29
•	Wal-Mart (WMT) Issues Statment Following Supreme Court Oral Argument in Dukes Litigation
•	Is Wal-Mart lawsuit too big?
•	Is Wal-Mart lawsuit too big?
•	Walmart takes discrimination case to top court
•	Wal-Mart releases statement regarding Dukes Case
•	On the Fly: Periodicals Wrap-Up
•	Wal-Mart's discrimination case goes to Supreme Court, FT reports
•	Supreme Court Will Hear Wal-Mart Sex Discrimination Suit; If Medicare Age Raised, Costs Shift from Government to Employers; New Mortg...
•	Japan's Nuclear Crisis "Very Grave"; Obama Defends War in Libya; Honk, Honk Stall Out; Buy A Dish, Get a Gun; The Wal-Mart Argument; Syrian Government Stepping Down; A Success Story
•	Airport Scanners Pose Cancer Risk; Wal-Mart to Ask Supreme Court to Throw Out Sex Discrimination Lawsuit; Woman Falls Into Sinkhole; Police ...
•	Supreme Court wrestles with sheer size of suit against Wal-Mart
•	Wal-Mart case highlights status of women in US workplace
•	Supreme Court hears Wal-Mart gender bias case; Decision will resound across wide swath of law; CLASS ACTION
•	Huge Wal-Mart women's bias lawsuit hits possible block by skeptical Supreme Court justices
•	Wal-Mart: Where even small numbers are big numbers; The behemoth retailer is being sued for discrimination by female employees. And the case is big.
•	Walmart Statement Regarding Supreme Court Oral Argument in Dukes Case
•	Supreme Court hears Wal-Mart gender bias case; Decision will resound across wide swath of law; CLASS ACTION
•	Wal-Mart facing huge discrimination lawsuit
•	WSJ: Wal-Mart Discrimination Suit Might Not Survive Supreme Court Review
•	Wal-Mart
•	Wal-Mart opposes big sex-bias case at US top court
•	FACTBOX-Key facts in Wal-Mart discrimination case
•	UPDATE 3-Wal-Mart gets sympathetic US court bias case hearing
•	TIMELINE-Chronology of Wal-Mart discrimination case
•	US court questions Wal-Mart sex bias suit
•	US Supreme Court hears landmark sexism case
•	Walmart's women workers take case to Supreme Court
•	Taking Sides
•	MLB Looking into Proper Treatment for Players with Concussions; Congress Holds Hearings on Bias against Muslims; Wal-Mart May Be Subject...
•	Libyan Forces Batter Misrata; Blueprint for a New Libya; Libyan Woman Faces Charges; Syrian Cabinet Quits; Twenty One Killed in Iraq Attack; Radioactive Water Contained; Japan Needs Replacement Crews; Battling Toxic Water and Soil; The Fight for Libya's Future; Women versus Wal-Mart; Angry Birds All The Rage; The Help Desk; Talk Back Question; Immigrant Guest Worker Law
•	Top Court Hears Arguments in Wal-Mart Suit
•	Debit-card fee debate focuses on the unknown
•	Supreme Court hears arguments in Wal-Mart case
•	Retail stocks rise, led by Home Depot
•	Supreme Court hears Wal-Mart gender bias case; Decision will resound across wide swath of law; CLASS ACTION
•	BUSINESS-NEWS-SCHEDULE AT 2:30 P.M. EDT
•	BUSINESS-NEWS-SCHEDULE AT 10:30 A.M. EST
•	Reuters World News Highlights at 1000 GMT, Mar 29
•	Supreme Court To Hear Appeal On Gender Pay Suit
•	High court takes up issue in bias suit vs. Wal-Mart Lawyers for female workers want litigation to proceed as class action.
•	Supreme Court to Weigh Sociology Issue in Wal-Mart Discrimination Case
•	Newscast: Class action suit filed against Walmart by female employees
•	Top court to take up huge sex bias claim vs. Wal-Mart
•	Women vs. Wal-Mart; Sheen`s Intern Search; Tween Bikini Controversy
•	Wal-Mart suit to be a class action? Supreme Court’s decision crucial to employment discrimination claims
•	Wal-Mart caught in mother of all job bias lawsuits
•	Wal-Mart asks Supreme Court to deny class-action suit by female workers; If the Supreme Court lets female workers’ suit go forward, it would be the largest employment discrimination suit in U.S. history.
•	Court to take up claim of sex bias -- Thousands may get to sue Wal-Mart
•	Where 'Wal-Mart' And ERISA Class Actions Meet; All eyes are on Supreme Court determination on standard for certification.
•	Supreme Court faces Wal-Mart-size decision
•	Women take case against Wal-Mart to highest court ; Company accused of demeaning and denying female employees
•	Interview: Betty Dukes, Jocelyn Larkin and Gisel Ruiz speak about job discrimination lawsuit against Walmart
•	Walmart sex discrimination case will redefine US law, say experts



WORLD NEWS
Walmart counters claim of sexual inequity

By Barney Jopson in New York and Matt Kennard in Washington      
581 words
30 March 2011
Financial Times
FTFT
London Ed1
08
English
Copyright 2011 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.      

Discrimination case in Supreme Court

Lawsuit centres on pay and promotion

Walmart has launched a counter attack against a small group of women seeking in the Supreme Court to represent more than 1m of the US discount retailer's current and former employees in the world's largest sex discrimination case.

In a class-action lawsuit that has taken a decade to reach the court, the retailer is accused of paying women in the US less than men for the same work and of passing them over for promotion.

The case has the potential to transform the course of legal disputes between big business and workers in the US by establishing legal precedents that would have wide-ranging implications.

Walmart, the world's biggest retailer by sales, has been an active opponent of unions and is no stranger to legal disputes, which often become politicised because of its size and influence.

On Tuesday, the court heard arguments on whether the case should be allowed to go forward with six original plaintiffs seeking to represent a larger group of current and former employees estimated to number up to 1.5m.

Theodore Boutros, the lead lawyer for Walmart, told the Supreme Court: "It's not fair to anyone that this is one big class [action]." Individuals who felt discriminated against should be dealt with case by case, he said.

The court is expected to issue a ruling by July.

Walmart claims the class action is too broadly constituted to be meaningful. Its corporate allies say that if the case is allowed to go forward, corporate America will be hobbled by classaction lawsuits.

Lawyers for the plaintiffs - led by Betty Dukes, 61, who still works for Walmart - say a victory on this technical point would give US workers better legal protection against discrimination.

The lawyers, who say the women's experiences reflect a wider culture of discrimination at Walmart, were challenged aggressively by the judges on Tuesday.

Justice Anthony Kennedy, who is seen as the crucial "wavering vote", told the plaintiffs' lawyer: "Your argument looks in two directions. You say headquarters know everything that is going on; then you say [local managers] have too much discretion."

David Tovar, a Walmart spokesman, said Ms Dukes and her fellow plaintiffs could not be representative of more than 1m women. "We think there are thousands of women who have had tremendously positive experiences working at Walmart," he said, adding that the group had had antidiscrimination policies in place for many years.

Joseph Sellers, for the plaintiffs, said before the arguments: "Walmart has repeatedly argued that this case is too big to be adjudicated properly. I worry that they are seeking a standard that would make companies too big to be accountable."

His team has supplemented evidence with testimony from other Walmart employees and statistical analysis that it says shows women are not paid as well or promoted as often as men. Walmart says the extra evidence is flawed.

Several big companies have rallied to Walmart's side. The US Chamber of Commerce said last year that if the case went ahead, "an avalanche of new class-action litigation" could engulf companies in the US.

Meanwhile, opponents of Walmart reject the suggestion that defeat for the retailer would shift power from big business to litigants. Instead, they say, it is a Walmart victory that would upend established legal tradition.

Document FTFT000020110330e73u0002a



Supreme Court skeptical of Wal-Mart bias case, Charlotte Observer reports

87 words
30 March 2011
Theflyonthewall.com
FLYWAL
English
(c) 2011. Theflyonthewall.com.    All Rights Reserved.      

In the largest employment discrimination case in history, Supreme Court justices have expressed initial skepticism about the practical and theoretical problems of the plaintiffs suing Wal-Mart (WMT) as one class

all women who worked for the chain since 1998

as well as the use of statistical models as opposed to direct evidence, as both large employers and workers across the nation anxiously await further indications regarding the ruling, according to the Charlotte Observer.

Reference Link

Document FLYWAL0020110330e73u000xj

current
Wal-Mart Class Action Runs Into Stiff Resistance; JUSTICES SAY plaintiffs' argument for gender    discrimination  'faces in two directions'

TONY MAURO | tmauro@alm.com      
1,509 words
30 March 2011
Fulton County Daily Report (Atlanta)
FCDRA
1
Volume 122; Issue 62
English
Copyright 2011 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

THE MASSIVE CLASS ACTION against retail giant Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ran into stiff resistance at the U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday, after surviving lower court challenges ever since it was launched 10 years ago.

"It's not clear to me: What is the unlawful policy that Wal-Mart has adopted?" said Justice Anthony Kennedy, who as usual is the likely swing vote in the closely watched business case Wal-Mart v. Dukes. The outcome of the dispute, involving as many as 3 million female current and former workers, could cost Wal-Mart billions in back pay or limit the use of class actions as a civil rights remedy.

Picking up on a point made by Wal-Mart, Kennedy told the lawyer for the plaintiffs that his argument "faces in two directions." Plaintiffs claim that gender discrimination at Wal-Mart resulted from excess discretion given to local store managers on the one hand and a companywide "corporate culture" that led to biased decisions on the other hand.

"I'm getting whipsawed here," said Justice Antonin Scalia, following up on Kennedy's concern. "Which is it?"

Joseph Sellers, the plaintiffs' lawyer, said that, although managers are given "broad discretion," they "do not make these decisions in a vacuum." The justices did not seem satisfied with his answer, and Sellers told the justices the concern they were raising would be resolved at the trial, "not at this stage."

At another point Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. suggested that, even if a significant number of cases of gender bias in pay and promotion are reported at Wal-Mart stores, it could be the result of a "few bad apples" being magnified by the size of the chain—more than 3,400 stores when the class action case was first filed in 2001. Roberts also said Wal-Mart's pay disparity for women was "less than the national average," but Sellers responded that national statistics do not reduce the chain's "obligation under Title VII."

As those comments suggest, several justices seemed eager to debate the merits of the discrimination case, even though the issue before the court is a threshold one: whether women employees at Wal-Mart had enough in common to certify a class under federal rules of civil procedure governing class actions, and whether such a class could, if successful, win back-pay damages or merely an injunction against future discrimination.

After the argument David Sanford of Sanford Wittels & Heisler, a plaintiffs' lawyer not involved in the case but who was in attendance, said the tenor of the questioning led him to worry that the justices "may roll back" the rights of women in the workplace. "If the court rules against the Wal-Mart women, Congress will have to act, as it did after the Ledbetter decision," a reference to legislation enacted in 2009 to counter a Supreme Court ruling on the statute of limitations for filing claims under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

Both the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California and a divided 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals certified the class. The plaintiffs' lawyer, Sellers, along with justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Elena Kagan and Sonia Sotomayor, tried to steer the argument back to the certification issue. They had limited success.

Outside the court, a group of noisy demonstrators protested against Wal-Mart, while inside the courtroom was packed with spectators, including named plaintiff Betty Dukes and Christine Kwapnoski, who still work at Wal-Mart.

Also sitting in the public section of the audience was Eugene Scalia, a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher and son of Justice Antonin Scalia. A group of Wal-Mart critics urged the justice to recuse because a Gibson Dunn partner of his son's, Theodore Boutrous Jr., is arguing for Wal-Mart, and Eugene Scalia has represented Wal-Mart in the past.

It was Boutrous' first argument before the court, though he is a veteran of complex corporate defense work. The plaintiffs' lawyer, Sellers, a name partner at Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll in Washington and a longtime civil rights litigator, has argued at the high court once before.

Boutrous planted the seed for the justices' doubts about the plaintiffs' argument in his own presentation, asserting that it was an "incoherent theory" to argue that Wal-Mart hiring decisions are both decentralized at the store level and centralized by corporate policy. Kagan suggested in response that "excessive subjectivity" could in itself be a companywide policy.

Instead of making broad statements about the potential harm to Wal-Mart if the class action is upheld, Boutrous stuck to the details of class action requirements. He attacked the statistical and sociological evidence the plaintiffs presented to win creation of the class as insufficient to meet the requirements of commonality. And he defended the company as one with a clear policy and track record favoring the hiring of women.

Boutrous stopped short of saying that class actions are never appropriate for attacking discrimination, and the justices did not appear ready to go that far, either.

"It does not seem that the court is interested in throwing out class actions," said plaintiffs' lawyer John Mahoney, a Washington partner at Tully Rinckey. "Rather they're interested in whether the facts of this case equal a class action. That's hopefully good news for plaintiffs but not necessarily the plaintiffs in this case."

During the argument, Sellers also dwelled on the class details, but when asked about the merits, he did not shy away. He talked about evidence that at the Sam Walton Institute, managers were presented with the statement that women are underrepresented in management because "men seeking advancement are more aggressive." Sellers said, "That's a typical, stereotypical statement provided to every person going through the management training program."

In addition, Sellers cited testimony from a Wal-Mart vice president that the policy against discrimination against women was "lip service"—a claim that Scalia asked Boutrous about during his rebuttal. "I'm glad you asked about that, Justice Scalia," Boutrous said. The company official said the policy would have been lip service if it had not been tied to compensation, Boutrous said.

In upholding the class certification, an en banc panel of the 9th Circuit last year accepted the anecdotal evidence of bias against women presented by the plaintiffs, as well as social science testimony asserting that Wal-Mart's culture created ìa conduit for gender biasî throughout its stores.

Judge Michael Hawkins, writing for the 6–5 majority, agreed with the district court that "it would be better to handle some parts of this case as a class action instead of clogging the federal courts with innumerable individual suits litigating the same issues repeatedly." In dissent, Judge Sandra Ikuta said the class was too large and unwieldy. "On its face, a class action of this sort makes no sense." In another dissent, Judge Alex Kozinski said that, with a "kaleidoscope" of supervisors and different work settings, the women in the proposed class "have little in common but their sex and this lawsuit."

The 9th Circuit also found that the class could seek back pay for class members even though Rule 23(b)(2) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure authorizes injunctive and declaratory relief. Classes certified under that rule are mandatory, without opt-out provisions for class members.

That issue did not occupy much time at the argument, but Proskauer Rose special employment counsel Amanda Haverstick, who attended the argument, said enough justices expressed concerns about the fairness of back-pay penalties that "it is possible the Court will affirm the class but take the back-pay aspect out of it." That would leave injunctive relief—in the form of future training programs and the like—as the main remedy if the class action prevails.

One issue that was prominent in the briefing before the case was argued did not come up at all during argument. Amicus curiae briefs for Wal-Mart asserted that large class actions force companies into "blackmail settlements." Roy Englert Jr. of Robbins, Russell, Englert, Orseck, Untereiner & Sauber, in a brief for Intel Corp., said, "Class certification can transform an ordinary lawsuit into 'bet-the-company' litigation.' But companies can seldom afford to make such wagers—no matter how small the odds are of an adverse judgment—so class certification almost always coerces an immediate settlement."

In a brief on behalf of a group of economics and law professors, Robert Libman of Miner, Barnhill & Galland in Chicago, responded, "The myth of 'blackmail settlements' has led to unsubstantiated claims that, as class numerosity and the size of potential judgment awards increase, so too does the likelihood that class action plaintiffs are merely taking advantage of riskaverse defendant corporations."

Tony Mauro is Supreme Court Corrrespondent for The National Law Journal, a Daily Report affiliate.      

Document FCDRA00020110330e73u00004

News; Financial
Obama Touts Energy Plan; Women Workers Sue Walmart; Drilling for Oil; Home Foreclosures

Eric Bolling, Monica Crowley, Juan Williams, Keith Ablow, Andrew    Napolitano,      
7,374 words
30 March 2011
Fox Business Network: Follow the Money
FBNMR
English
© 2011 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.      

ERIC BOLLING, HOST: Welcome to "Follow the Money," I'm Eric Bolling, and this is a FOX Business alert. President Obama spent some time today outlining his ideas for an American energy policy. He spent time trying to explain to a Georgetown University audience his plan to reduce gasoline prices. He even took a shot at someone he should be listening to regarding energy rather than making fun of.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Remember it was just three years ago that gas prices topped $4 a gallon. Outraged politicians, they were waving their three-point plans. You remember that. "Drill baby drill" and we were going through all that.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BOLLING: Think that was a shot at Sarah Palin? "You betcha" it was. Obama's plan for the future of American energy security amounts to this, America, use less or we're screwed. Really, Mr. President? That's all you and your sidekick flunky Energy Secretary Steven Chu can muster up, use less?

Meanwhile, back in the real world, gasoline hit its highest price in two years while the president opined, analyzed, and dodged the issue. Three dollars and fifty-nine-and-a-half cents is what Americans now pay for a gallon of gas. Just a touch over two years ago, President Obama took office, the price Americans paid that day was, wait for it, $1.83.

That amounts to an extra $242 billion we have to fork over to foreign oil producers. So as we hold out a $2 billion loan offer to Brazilian oil giant Petrobras, and the Interior Department issues permits to drill as fast as Obama's stimulus jobs are being created, or saved, we suffer at the pump.

We suffer in the grocery aisle and we suffer when we buy cotton jeans and T-shirts. We're even dealt a fuel surcharge for airline flights sometimes as high as $400 each way. So while we're bleeding in the streets, Obama's answer to high gas prices, a windmill, a solar panel, and some woodchips. Thanks for the help, chief.

Mr. President, you're grossly under-equipped, your solutions are problematic. That said, if you ever want real solutions to our energy crisis, start treating it like what it is, a crisis and not just another opportunity to read your pie in the sky liberal talking points from a teleprompter and on camera.

If you mean business, pick up a phone and call me. Give me a ring, hit me up on Facebook and Twitter, and we can sit down and solve the crisis in a few days or we can pay 5, 6, or 7 bucks a gallon for gasoline while waiting for switch grass to power or F-150s, it's your call. I'll be waiting to hear from you, Mr. President. Should I hold my breath?

Joining me now is Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri, who has been pushing to lower gasoline prices immediately. He has got some great ideas.

Senator, thank you for joining us. Give us a sense -- first of all, give us a response -- your reaction to the president's energy policy from earlier today.

SEN. ROY BLUNT (R), MISSOURI: Well, Eric, it's good to be with you, and it's good to have a chance to talk about this. I don't know how many times have to learn the lesson that our economy is dramatically impacted by energy and we need more American energy.

I would say the speech I heard today was not the speech that is based on the policy that this president or the secretary of energy had two years ago. Remember, two years ago, the president, in late 2008 -- I guess two- and-a-half years ago, went to The San Francisco Chronicle and he said under his electricity prices utility bills would go -- would skyrocket. And Secretary Chu said about.

BOLLING: Necessarily -- I think he said necessarily, right?

BLUNT: Necessarily skyrocket. That's exactly right. And Secretary Chu at about the same time said we had to -- what we needed to do in this country was get gasoline as expensive as it is in Europe.

So their inclination was always, let's make energy so expensive people don't use it. Hopefully they figured out that's a job-killer, it's an economy-killer. We're not Europe. We don't do our business the way Europeans do. And we need more American energy.

And, frankly, in spite of the comment about "drill baby drill," I thought I heard a significant amount of what the president was saying was we need more of the traditional fuels as well as we need new fuels. So let's see if they put their regulations and their process where their speech is and try to get more American energy from traditional sources as well as new sources.

BOLLING: Senator, you know, the last two days or so, maybe even three days, including today's speech, Mr. Obama took credit for increased production of crude oil. Now, we know crude oil production peaked in 2009, but again, it peaked because of policies that were in play or put in motion under George Bush, isn't that right?

BLUNT: Well, they were put in motion as a result of the 2005 Energy Act that I cosponsored as a House member. By 2007 or so, President Bush had had the rules and regulations in place that that new bill allowed. And among other things, were issuing non-intrusive drilling permits on public land, 77 of those permits were eliminated by this administration almost in the first week.

And these are policies that they haven't stopped yet but they certainly aren't policies that they initiated. And, you know, I heard this one pledge in the speech was some time in the next -- in 10 years we'll be importing a third less oil than we are today, but I never heard an explanation of how that was going happen.

That would be like me saying in 10 years we're going to have a third less cancer than we have today. I mean, you have to have some plan that goes along with solving these big problems.

BOLLING: So, again, is it disingenuous? Is he -- you know, this is a tough word, is he outright lying to the American public, taking credit for the increase in drilling that occurred leading up to 2009? I mean, he wasn't president leading up to when those wells were permitted. He wasn't president when the rigs were put in the water in the Gulf of Mexico, and he wasn't president when the oil started coming out of the Gulf, out of the ocean.

BLUNT: I think it is fair to say that the only impact this president had on 2009 was the negative impact of eliminating leases that the previous administration had issued. So any positive impact happened because of what had happened before he got there.

And I'd be pleased to work with the president and anybody else to get more American oil, more American natural gas, use our fossil fuels, including coal. We need to take advantage of the resources we have to grow our economy and create American jobs rather than to try to make these things so expensive that nobody wants to use them.

BOLLING: Right. Senator, I.

BLUNT: The president is about to find out.

BOLLING: . don't want to cut you off, sir, but.

BLUNT: . what happens when gas gets so expensive that people don't want to use it.

BOLLING: We're going lose your satellite, sir. But in just a short real quick sound bite, you had a fantastic idea you sent to us. You pointed out that if you drop this winter-summer blending for gasoline that, God knows how many different blends are required by different municipalities and states and what not, if you dropped that requirement, would that have a downward effect on gasoline prices?

BLUNT: Oh, it absolutely would. Any time you make gas a commodity again instead of a specialty fuel, you're going to have impact on price because it is easier for people to get that.

And you may need three or four different blends of gasoline for clean air standards, but you don't need 30 or 40 different blends. And, frankly, this bill that we introduced this year building on a bill that was passed that I sponsored right before Katrina would just extend beyond natural disaster other things that could happen in the fuel stream.

A refinery goes down, the Suez Canal can't be used, so that the president could say, for the foreseeable future we're going to go back to where gas is a commodity, not a boutique item.

BOLLING: All right. You know what, sir, that's a great idea. We love your idea. And, frankly, it's the first time we heard a senator or congressperson actually come up with an idea that might actually work right away.

I'm going to say thank you to Senator Blunt, appreciate your time.

BLUNT: Thank you.

BOLLING: Joining me now is Dr. Caroline Heldman, professor of politics at Occidental College, who says some members of Congress are using high gas prices to do away with laws protecting the outdoors.

Doc, right now, right now at $3.60 a gallon, can't we put that regulation thing aside just for a minute so we can start to get people back to work, get people back to work, make sure our economy doesn't fail?

DR. CAROLINE HELDMAN, PROFESSOR OF POLITICS, OCCIDENTAL COLLEGE: Well, Eric, with all due respect to Representative (sic) Blunt, he is a big part of the problem. He is trying to take advantage of this situation to relax very reasonable environmental regulations.

And if we want to get to the heart of it, then we need to say, why are prices so high? They're high because oil companies are illegally manipulating prices, given what's happening in the Middle East, and speculators are driving them up.

It is not the result of the policy from the administration. It has to do with the market. And when we get the quarterlies, we're going see that these deep profits are going to the oil companies. That they're affecting the American public.

BOLLING: Doctor, you're a professor of politics, clearly not a professor of economics. Let me ask you the question then, there are speculators in natural gas, are there not?

HELDMAN: Sure, there are speculators in natural gas as well.

BOLLING: Well, why hasn't the price of natural gas gone up?

HELDMAN: Because we don't have a crisis that they can use to take advantage of.

BOLLING: Exactly.

(CROSSTALK)

HELDMAN: . right now.

BOLLING: Exactly.

HELDMAN: Natural gas is not the issue.

BOLLING: You know why we don't have a crisis?

HELDMAN: But they're taking advantage, Eric. They're taking advantage. It's not something that is real or tangible. It's something that is speculative. That's the whole point of speculation.

BOLLING: What if I said I agree with you that there are speculators and they may be pushing the price higher?

HELDMAN: Then I'd give you a hug.

BOLLING: How about we take legs out of the speculators, Doc? How about if we do this? We drill enough oil here in America where the speculators can't run the price of a barrel of oil up to $104.50 just because someone might be pumping a fist in Tahrir Square.

HELDMAN: Well, you know, Eric, that is one solution. I would propose a more environmentally sound solution, which would be to develop alternative fuels so that we are not reliant on the most heavily polluting fuels in the United States.

BOLLING: Like what? Like what, Doc?

HELDMAN: . as a result of not having a fuel policy.

BOLLING: Like what? Give me an idea what. Because, remember, you know, half the country right now is running around in F-150s. I don't know any wood chips or wind turbines you can put on the back of the F-150 and make it go.

HELDMAN: Well, Eric, you could raise -- what President Obama is doing is raising fuel-efficiency standards, promoting hybrid technology. We also have a lot of technology that is probably 10 years out, but hydrogen technology.

So there are alternatives, and not just for our automobiles, which are only part of the problem, but better fuel-efficient or better standards for electrical appliances in our homes, improving the electrical grid. There are a lot of tangible policies here.

BOLLING: Doc, GM is selling 300 Volts a month, a month. They were expecting to sell 100,000 Volts. They'll never get to that expectation. I don't know where you're getting -- it's so off-base to say we need today to switch over to green cars, to electric cars. By the way, the GE Volt.

HELDMAN: I was saying that 20 years ago. Twenty years ago people were looking at this.

BOLLING: Or we could have drilled 20 years ago, Doc. We could be drilling five years ago or three years ago, and we'd probably be getting some of the...

HELDMAN: And polluting.

BOLLING: . oil out of the ground now.

HELDMAN: And polluting our environment further and acting like -- putting our head in the sand and acting like that's an energy policy? It's not an energy policy. For the first time we have a president who's promoting something beyond his administration. And for that I give President Obama kudos.

I mean, we have seen Democratic and Republican presidents for the last two decades put their head in the sand over global warming and act like this isn't happening. It is. And it's a result of what we are.

BOLLING: Interesting.

HELDMAN: . doing as human beings.

BOLLING: We have opening day tomorrow, and there is going to be -- as Monica points out, there is going to be 10 inches of snow right here in the Northeast. Global warming.

Hang on, Doctor. Let's bring in tonight's all-star panel. On the left, a guy who says, drill me? No, drill you. FOX News contributor Juan Williams. On the right, FOX News contributor Monica Crowley, who is, frankly, uncomfortable with where I'm going with this drilling.

(CROSSTALK)

(LAUGHTER)

BOLLING: And on the satellite, a guy who is willing to drill just about anybody, anybody in.

(CROSSTALK)

(LAUGHTER)

BOLLING: . that is, FOX News contributor Dr. Keith Ablow.

Monica.

(CROSSTALK)

BOLLING: There is no short-term green solution to $6 -- $5, $6, $7 gasoline.

MONICA CROWLEY, FOX CONTRIBUTOR: No, I mean, look, all of the alternatives that Caroline points out, if the market were really going to reward that technology, we would have had it a long time ago. There is no market forces that are rewarding these kinds of technologies.

If the consumer wanted these kinds of cars, if the car companies saw that they could make a profit from these kinds of cars, they would have been making these years ago. They're not for a reason.

The other point is that 70 percent of our energy consumption is transportation. You cannot fly a plane on windmills. You cannot.

BOLLING: Or wood chips.

CROWLEY: . fly a plane on wood chips. You need fuel to do it. And you know what, we are sitting on more oil and natural gas in this country than the rest of the world combined, and we're not exploiting it.

BOLLING: Juan Williams, GM is buying several thousand Chevy Volts. They're getting a $7,500 credit back from, I don't know, this green initiative. That means they made $14 billion last year. They paid zero dollars in income tax -- federal income tax. Zero, zero.

And they're going to get somewhere around a $350 tax credit for buying Chevy Volts. This is crony capitalism.

JUAN WILLIAMS, FOX CONTRIBUTOR: Crony capitalism?

BOLLING: Sure.

WILLIAMS: But there's policy involved. The policy is.

BOLLING: What's the policy?

WILLIAMS: . that you're trying to encourage more green environmental standards that would get more green cars, hydrogen-powered cars on the road.

BOLLING: Obama needs GM to look like they're selling cars, so he goes to Jeff Immelt, who now has been tapped as his job czar and says, you know what, buy these cars. We're going to make sure you get the $7,500 credit.

He gets it back, everyone looks good, and guess what happens, Dr. Keith Ablow, guess what happens? In about a year-and-a-half when Obama has got to raise a billion dollars for a reelection campaign, who do you think is going to be a big contributor to that one?

DR. KEITH ABLOW, FOX CONTRIBUTOR: Boy, I wonder, right? You think maybe autoworkers or the auto giants? Bottom line here is, Juan, I appreciate the perspective, but it's not the government's job to select which products to encourage per se. That's an Obama reality. That's not an American reality. And if we believe.

WILLIAMS: Well, what about leadership, Keith?

ABLOW: Well, leadership is great. If you want to encourage, if you want to look forward to these things, if you want to have educational initiatives that prepare the population to staff companies like that, hey, fine.

But the bottom line is you don't discourage consumers from buying particular products and encourage them to buy others. It's just not government's place. Beyond that.

WILLIAMS: Oh, I think.

ABLOW: . if you really believe...

(CROSSTALK)

WILLIAMS: But, Keith, we do that in terms of oil, we do that in terms of every other, you know, item, every other instance of commerce that government encourages. Think about ethanol. Why do we subsidize ethanol?

ABLOW: But we don't do that with pie in the sky planning where we say, we believe artificially that by this date we will be able to sustain our needs with this new technology.

If you really believe that, then in 10 years, according to the guest, we can look forward to hydrogen technology taking the place largely of gas- powered vehicles.

BOLLING: Hang on, guys. Hang on, fellows. Let me bring in -- I want to bring in.

ABLOW: If that's true, drill.

BOLLING: . the other two.

Monica, Juan points out, why do we subsidize ethanol?

CROWLEY: That's a mistake also.

ABLOW: I agree, yes.

CROWLEY: Any kind of government subsidy is primarily political and not economic, number one. And number two, dis-incentivizes, warps the market in a way because it doesn't allow the market to really generate the kinds of solutions that will be profitable and that consumers will.

(CROSSTALK)

BOLLING: I want to go to Dr. Heldman before we wrap up the block. We're running out of time.

I've got to tell you, it really irks me when the president gets on the podium and says, look what you're doing, look what we're doing here, energy -- oil production, it peaked in 2009 under his watch. It had nothing to do with his watch, Doctor. What about that? He's taking credit for policies that, frankly, Bush put in play.

HELDMAN: Yes, you're right, Eric. I mean, this is what presidents do, right? They take advantage of political opportunities. But I do think one thing to commend him for, again, is the long-term thinking.

And I would disagree that we have market forces at play here. What we have is big oil lobbying government to prevent the sort of research and development that perhaps only government can provide.

Because it is hard to prove away from something that makes you a lot of money into something that is better for public health and safety.

BOLLING: All right. Doc, everyone, both docs on the birds hang in there. The war against Walmart, what would happen to your favorite low price store if the unions got in there? You're watching the FOX Business Network, the power to prosper.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BOLLING: Women workers suing retail giant Walmart Stores for workplace discrimination. They faced uphill battle at the Supreme Court level yesterday in their efforts to proceed in a massive class-action lawsuit. "Freedom Watch" host, the great Judge Andrew Napolitano, has been all over this story.

Judge, tell us about it. This is a big lawsuit.

ANDREW NAPOLITANO, HOST, "FREEDOM WATCH": Yes. All right. So you have six former female employees of Walmart suing on behalf of every female currently employed or ever employed by Walmart.

So six people want to represent 1.5 million people. And the six want to persuade the Supreme Court that if they can prove their case that the same should be the state of affairs for all 1.5 million, this is what is called a class action. The court picks representatives of the class and tries only their case and their case determines the outcome for everyone.

BOLLING: What's their case?

NAPOLITANO: Their case is that Walmart systematically discriminated against females with respect to promotion and with respect to raises. And that if all things were equal, a man and a woman could both do the jobs and that equal performances on the lower level jobs, the guy got the promotion.

Now it's difficult for them to demonstrate that because even though there are 3,000 stores and even though Walmart is enormous, the managers of each stores have a lot of autonomy.

But the plaintiffs and their lawyers want to persuade the Supreme Court that the system in Walmart is the same everywhere.

BOLLING: Can I stop you? Can I stop you? You said the managers of the individual stores have a lot of autonomy. Where did they get that autonomy?

NAPOLITANO: Well, that's the argument that the lawyers for the females -- I don't mean to demean them, but I'm trying to describe who they are, the lawyers for the female plaintiffs will make, that Walmart gave this autonomy by failing to instruct management as to how to comply with federal law, which is that you have to be gender neutral. You can't hire or you can't promote because of gender.

BOLLING: So they're not claiming that there was a concerted effort by Walmart management to make sure that men get raises and promoted and women not. You're saying, they didn't teach them how to do it properly?

NAPOLITANO: They are claiming that there was a concerted effort by Walmart to promote men because it was a cultural thing in Walmart. Walmart is saying in defense, no, there was no system-wide policy. And then the women are saying, there should have been a system-wide policy, you didn't teach them how...

(CROSSTALK)

BOLLING: Judge, tell us the financial impact, you know, if it's all of them, the 1.5, or maybe just the six original.

NAPOLITANO: All right. If the Supreme Court rejects what is called "the certification of the class," a fancy phrase for the six can sue for the 1.5 million, if the Supreme Court says no, and it looks like they going say no, then you have a trial of six plaintiffs against Walmart.

Even if they prevail, it is worth at most a few hundred thousand dollars. If the Supreme Court certifies the class and lets the six sue on behalf of the 1.5 million, you're talking $3 billion to $5 billion in expenses the Walmart. That's a significant impact.

BOLLING: Are you surprised this has made it all the way to the Supreme Court?

NAPOLITANO: Yes, I am. Normally -- remember, there hasn't been to trial yet. This is a pretrial motion that the trial court granted and the Court of Appeals affirmed, and now the Supreme Court wants to revolve.

I think that the Supreme Court does not want the case to go forward. If it does, it will open up the floodgates against major multinational corporations. It will raise prices, raise insurance premiums, and depress the economy.

BOLLING: Now thank you to the judge. You can catch the judge every single night weeknights right here on FBN. That's 8:00 p.m. Then stick around for Asman and stick around for us a little bit later too.

All right. Let's bring it out to the panel. Is this a backdoor way to simply try to push Walmart into unionizing? Let me go to Dr. Heldman.

What do you think of this? We were talking about it earlier. I said, wait a minute, wait a minute, if this were -- if the Supreme Court were to rule on the side of the females, the group of the class, would it make it easier? The unions, I'm sure, would love to get their dirty little -- grubby little hands on that one, don't you think?

HELDMAN: Well, I'm not exactly sure how the unions would respond, but it is really clear that something is going on here with Walmart, right? We have 170 different job classifications, and every single one of them you have women getting paid less.

So the idea that this isn't company-wide is ridiculous. Of course it is company-wide. The question is how that happened. And I like the idea of the Supreme Court upholding this because then other companies that engage in these practices would actually have to provide justice for their employees, and a lot of them presently do not.

BOLLING: Let me go to you, Juan. I'm guessing the unions would like to get into Walmart. And maybe this would be a way for them to say, boy, Walmart, they lost this case, obviously they're discriminating, maybe we should go in there and fix Walmart?

WILLIAMS: You know, this is a long-standing issue in American life, and you had the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission going way back to the Reagan years, arguments there, about, do you have individual lawsuits or do you have class-action lawsuits?

And the idea has long been, let's get away from class-action suits, let's go down to the individual level, let's make people make their case one by one. But that does slow down the process and typically it means a huge backlog that never gets satisfied, and the issue never gets settled.

BOLLING: Thoughts, Monica?

CROWLEY: I think you're onto something. I think this is a backdoor way to try to unionize Walmart. Walmart for a long time has resisted the unions. They resisted unionizing their employees for one reason. They say they cannot deliver their goods and services at the cut rates that they currently do, which has made them a huge success, and by the way, great servicers of very low-income communities across America, because they can offer these goods and services at cut rates.

They'll no longer be able to provide those goods and services at those reduced rates because the unions are going to jack up the cost of the labor. They're going to jack up the cost of everything related to the business of Walmart, which means, guess what, the consumer prices go up.

BOLLING: What do you think, Doc? Dr. Ablow, Walmart is a target all of the time. This is another example of it.

ABLOW: Well, I think so. And for me, I think it is a numbers game. So, you had six people on behalf of 1.5 million seems very slight to me. I'm not a statistician. But if these guys wanted to make their case, bring me 600 people. Six to me doesn't carry the day that that should be the kind of moment, as Juan says. Perhaps we need to have individuals suing.

Well, maybe class-action suits could proceed if it's a reasonable show that there is a groundswell of such people who have a claim.

BOLLING: Juan, why does the left want Walmart to unionize so badly?

WILLIAMS: Why do they want to unionize?

BOLLING: Yes, why? You see.

WILLIAMS: Because.

BOLLING: . the left out there saying.

WILLIAMS: Look, they're a tremendous success.

(CROSSTALK)

BOLLING: There are Web sites that are trashing Walmart for not being unionized.

WILLIAMS: They are a tremendous success in America. We're talking about Walmart, and I think, you know what, this is a free enterprise system, they pursue free enterprise. But they get their goods from China, overwhelmingly. They've been, you know, at the forefront of that.

Secondly, they devastate business in small towns. Monica says they help out low-income communities. Big cities, including city councils.

BOLLING: They bring jobs.

WILLIAMS: . pressured by unions, have stopped Walmart from.

BOLLINGS: Jobs, jobs, and lower prices.

WILLIAMS: . coming into these cities for just this reason.

CROWLEY: Jobs and lower prices, that's the key. You know how many Walmarts exist in China? Communist China? About 12 to 14. You know how many Walmarts in New York City? Zero.

WILLIAMS: Right. That's what I'm trying to say.

CROWLEY: Why? Because the unions are resisting this because it's not a union shop.

WILLIAMS: No, no, no. Let me tell you, I think that the unions -- you're onto something between the unions and the city councils and the mayors who resist this. But don't forget, Walmarts wipe out business wherever they go. Small business is devastated by Walmart bringing in goods from China.

BOLLING: We are going to have to leave it there. The Walmart discussion.

Coming up next, the president's energy plan, why is Brazil drilling in the Gulf right now and we're not? We're going to ask Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ERIC BOLLING, FOX BUSINESS HOST: Welcome back to "Follow the Money." This is a Fox Business alert. President Obama lays out his plan for America's energy security, but some say that instead of helping gas prices go down, the Obama administration is pushing gas prices higher.

Joining me now is Representative Sheila Jackson Lee. Congresswoman, you're from Houston, Texas. Why can't the president get this straight to get it will prices down? It would only help your constituents.

REP. SHEILA JACKSON LEE, (D) TEXAS: No doubt that we tried to restart the offshore deep water drilling and to the secretary of the interior. But I think we should look at the glass as half full, looking at being careful that what he sees as a futuristic energy policy. He did not rule out drilling but of short on land and he wants to instill the attitude to get busy and get going.

BOLLING: I'm sorry, the problem with that is it is use it or lose it he was to take the land back. So you're more focused on pulling leases off instead of putting some on. There has been one brand-new these. Why is he not listening to you?

LEE: I think he is more interested -- his counsel gives of the advice that you have to spur odd development. We really need a roundtable days roundtable discussion the president did speak about natural-gas. We have no quarrel with that in the state of Texas but I believe you can safely and securely do deep water offshore drilling. But we have not convinced the president of that.

This is not the end of the energy policy. I believe the energy leaders in my own district need to have a roundtable discussion. He is open-minded and has set out a framework and does not want to see prices go up. It happens. We're in a Mideast conflict hitting the OPEC nations and we also know they take advantage of conflict.

BOLLING: The problem is he goes to South America to Rio de Janeiro and hands over $2 billion loan to PetroGras. I don't think you can see this but here is the full screen. This is what they have going on in the gulf. They have a drilling along the Louisiana coastline. Here is a company that is Brazilian. What is going on?

LEE: I think what is happening is international diplomacy building friendship, and that should not be mutually exclusive to help domestic companies here in the United States. I never strayed away from that position. What we have had is two positions at odds with each other. Some years ago I called that with a democratic president and he was a world negative able to understand the structure.

Now I am calling for a meeting with the leaders who are willing to meet and real understand the future that they are biofuels they are electric cars. I am not against any of that. I admit equal opportunities supporter. We should support fossil fuels and other forms of energy just as equally. Let them come to a resolution to drill safely and securely.

BOLLING: Say it with me, representative, drill, baby, drill.

LEE: Drill safely and securely.

(LAUGHTER)

BOLLING: Thank you very much Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. Bringing it to the panel, Monica?

MONICA CROWLEY, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I am presently eight days pleasantly surprised cannot believe I agree with her. I was the encouraged to hear her words about offshore deep water drilling because this administration is so resistant to it. That gave them if it is to stop giving out the leases to put the big moratorium on. We find out two-thirds of the areas offshore they cannot tap that that is beyond absurd. With more oil and natural gas we should be able to get this stuff out of the ground.

BOLLING: Put that map back up. This is not accounting for any other oil companies. They just pull the oil off our coast it is a Brazilian owned companies that maybe Texas could be drilling for. Those are jobs Americans could have.

JUAN WILLIAMS, SENIOR EDITOR, "THE HILL": To know what happened with BP happen? We lost jobs through the gulf region. They have to make up for the jobs that was lost in terms of other economies of tourism, fishing all devastated. Why wouldn't the government take precautions to avoid that from happening again?

BOLLING: We're not talking about not using any regulation. We're simply saying let's get the drill bit started.

DR. KEITH ABLOW, PSYCHIATRIST: Absolutely. You are applying a storyline that makes sense, and it has cohesion. The president has yet to bring the storyline. The seemingly random policies giving rise to a Brazilian company, otherwise they miss the backbone that the president believes we are economic tyrants around the world and it is time to redistribute the wealth of America around the world. That is the storyline he won't speak to any of that is the reality.

WILLIAMS: Keith, why is it not to our advantage to get away from being oil dependent on the Middle Easterners who have terrorism and we give them to an ally like brazil? What is wrong with that?

ABLOW: It is 100 percent in our interest, but we can drill our own oil and achieve the same results. If that is the case that we really believe in 10 years we had to energy independence, then let's bring the industry leaders to the table to come up with a real plan.

CROWLEY: What about the American companies?

BOLLING: Juan points out something important, what about allies to America's? What about Texas, Louisiana, and Florida? They are pretty good allies to America?

DR. CAROLINE HELDMAN, PROFESSOR OF POLITICS, OCCIDENTAL COLLEGE: What I think the panel has done is provided a really complex picture of a really complex subject. And if President Obama has a policy to allow for deep water drilling then it should be implemented. So I'm with Representative Jackson on that.

BOLLING: Last word, Monica, does it not drive you crazy foreign companies are drilling that we could be tapping it is just a very long straw.

CROWLEY: It is Orwellian. It's surreal. We have American oil companies that should have those leases. I totally agree with Dr. Heldman, everybody else we need to get off this dependency on foreign oil. Every president since Nixon over 40 years ago talk about this but nobody can do it. Now was the time.

BOLLING: We have to leave it there. Thank you Dr. Caroline Heldman. Up next in the "Corruption Matrix" George Clooney called to testify on behalf of Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi. It seems Clooney attended one of these sex parties hosted by the prime minister.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BOLLING: And now we bring you today's "Corruption Matrix," taking you inside the world of corruption, abuse of power, and shocking betrayals of public trust.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

BOLLING: Rome, Italy, there may be a role in the works for pretty boy actor George Clooney. The current heartthrob and his latest hottie have been called to testify on behalf of the prime minister's Silvio Berlusconi. Prostitute Ruby "The Heart Stealer" that Clooney attended one of the wild sex parties hosted by the prime minister and they want to know more. Party on, Clooney. We hear you may have a big part in the upcoming Berlusconi movie. I don't think it is PG rated, either.

Washington D.C. The meter has expired on a New York Democratic congressmen who has been breaking the law while bullying others to follow it. Representative Anthony Weiner has criticized 11 diplomats to fail to pay the parking tickets. Now we find he has racked up parking violations and has no intention of paying them until he was outbid. Look both ways before crossing the road to reelection.

Patterson, New Jersey. It just smells bad. And 20 grand and remove the engine from the county owned car. Four years in the big house you better keep your reader. That is the "Corruption Matrix."

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BOLLING: Major League star Lenny Dykstra lost his home to the bank, but now he is fighting to help you keep your house with stoptheagreedybanks.com. My old friend is here. Tell us about your story.

LENNY DYKSTRA, FORMER MLB PLAYER: Good to talk to you. There are millions in foreclosure right now but what happens is you have to remember that you know me. I am a normal guy. Normal compared to normal meeting I don't believe in ghosts and I am not afraid of the dark. I did not think there was such a thing as corporate crime until I was involved with the situation where JP Morgan literally these set me up to fail. It is called equity stripping.

I fought them and two years disappeared of my life. I won. People who want to know all about this coming up very soon the right now have a company where I can help people save their home and the bottom line is there is a fiduciary duty for the banks to qualify people for homos. So there is a way to get your money back or save your home.

BOLLING: Do they have to qualify for any federal help? Were you were just three negotiating with the banks?

DYKSTRA: A lot is now standing when people do a loan it is securitized. What happens whoever stamps these things, what happens is we do a forensic audit first. We qualify the people to make sure the loan is predatory. That is a thousand different things.

Either it is a right or wrong, the debt to income war would never. I have got out there on my website stop the green ebanks.com. I show exactly how we got our money backing of the court papers. I get my home back if I want there is the trustee's sale on April 11th. It is more important to understand the banks were literally into equities stripping and setting you up to fail.

BOLLING: We have to leave it there, so I want to say thank you to you. But next time you will bring in a friend? Are we going to the Charlie Sheen --

DYKSTRA: Yes. Me and Charlie have been hanging out, and Charlie and I will come and see you. He is in Radio City on the eight and the tenth. He wants to talk to about baseball.

BOLLING: Let's do that. Right here in the studio. Bigger than both of us combined. Great to see you.

DYKSTRA: Take care.

BOLLING: Coming up next we did been to the cyber mailbag to see what you are talking all about.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BOLLING: Today President Obama outlined his energy plan for America of. Guess what? No drilling. I asked our Facebook friends where would you drill first? Keith says "First planet earth, then the moon, then Mars if China has not colonized all of them yet." Steven says "Wherever scientists and engineers determine it can be productive the quickest." Mike says "ANWR, the gulf, and the development of oil shale and gas. All hands on deck."

Monica, were you surprised with Sheila Jackson Lee? I cannot believe she is for drilling. She is a liberal.

CROWLEY: Because her district is Houston, Texas, where a lot of major oil companies reside. And you should believe that she is hearing it from the executives say you're costing us jobs in the American people with the price of gas and you have to lean on this of mystery should help us get offshore leases.

WILLIAMS: I think we're heard from the professor is true. It is not actually a decrease the Saudis have made that up but everybody is worried when you have a protest it could destabilize the entire region therefore speculate years.

BOLLING: Why not natural gas or copper?

WILLIAMS: They don't have the kind of destabilized situation in the Middle East, which is our main oil supply.

BOLLING: Would it be an issue if we didn't have to rely on Middle Eastern oil?

WILLIAMS: That's why I say I think it's not a bad idea to have other sources, especially people who are American allies. But let me quickly follow-up. I think Monica is right. I think the oil companies are talking to a congresswoman from Houston, Texas. But don't forget. I don't think you are right to say the left is opposed to drilling. People left and right don't want drilling their results in the BP oil spills that screw up our beaches.

BOLLING: The difference between the price of gasoline when Obama's started a and today is 96 percent higher, meaning $242 billion of Americans' pockets. With my respect to Juan Williams it does matter that we need to be drilling war. And oil spill that frankly did not cost the government anything, we need to look to the right and start drilling.

ABLOW: I love Juan but I think he neglects market forces. If we have a stage plan to develop these resources from that that is charge from abroad like we well back off if you sell at the right price otherwise you'll get our own, believe me they will come at the right price.

BOLLING: Thank you. I want to leave you guys with this. Take a look at the map on the screen. If this does not drive you crazy days crazy -- here it is in Texas and Louisiana, littered with oil infrastructure. It should be our oil and we should be doing it, guys. Goodnight, everybody. We will see you on Friday.

Document FBNMR00020110331e73u00001



Business
Justices question Wal-Mart suit

Reuters      
346 words
30 March 2011
Edmonton Journal
EDJR
Final
E3
English
Copyright © 2011 Edmonton Journal      

Wal-Mart got a sympathetic hearing from several U.S. Supreme Court justices Tuesday as the retailer sought to prevent female employees from bringing the largest classaction sex-discrimination lawsuit in history.

The justices sharply questioned whether more than a million female employees can join together against Wal-Mart Stores Inc., accused of paying women less and giving them fewer promotions.

"I'm just not sure what the unlawful policy is," said Justice Anthony Kennedy, a moderate conservative who often casts the decisive vote on the nine-member court.

Justice Antonin Scalia said the plaintiffs hadn't made clear whether it was Wal-Mart's corporate culture or local store managers who were allegedly at fault. "Which is it?"

Scalia questioned if it would be fair to the company, the world's biggest retailer, for the case to proceed. "Is this really due process?" he asked.

Potential liability could reach billions of dollars.

But even if Wal-Mart loses at the Supreme Court and then at trial, financial analysts said the Bentonville, Ark.-based company has more than enough cash to make a big payout with little impact on its profits.

A crowd of protesters gathered outside the court, shouting "Fair pay now" and carrying signs such as "Stop discounting the women of Wal-Mart" and "The women of Wal-Mart are not worthless."

"We're not going to lose," Chris Kwapnoski, a 24-year Wal-Mart employee and one of the named plaintiffs in the case, told reporters after the arguments. She recalled being told by a manager to "brush the cobwebs off" and "doll up" if she wanted advancement.

But Gisel Ruiz, a Wal-Mart executive vice-president, said the company has "strong anti-discrimination policies in place, a strong record of advancement of women and we are always looking to be better."

The court is likely to make a ruling by late June. The decision could change the legal landscape for workplace and other class-action lawsuits, affecting a similar case against Costco Wholesale Corp.

Document EDJR000020110330e73u0003n



News
Wal-Mart opposes sex-bias case at class-action suit filed in the US; RETAIL

203 words
30 March 2011
City AM
CITYMO
1
13
English
Copyright 2011. CITY AM.      

SEVERAL US Supreme Court justices questioned yesterday whether female employees at Wal-Mart can proceed with the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history that seeks billions of dollars.

At issue in the case was whether a small group of women who began the lawsuit 10 years ago against the world's largest retailer can represent a huge nationwide class that could total millions of women.

After attorneys for Wal-Mart and for the employees presented arguments, a crowd of protesters that had gathered outside the Supreme Court shouted "fair pay now" and carried signs such as "Stop discounting the women of Wal-Mart".

Chris Kwapnoski, a 24-year Wal-Mart employee and one of the named plaintiffs in the case, confidently told reporters after the arguments, "We're not going to lose."

She recalled being told by a manager to "brush the cobwebs off" and "doll up" if she wanted advancement.

After listening to the attorneys, the top court took the case under advisement, with a ruling expected by late June. The decision could change the legal landscape for workplace and other class-action lawsuits.

Document CITYMO0020110330e73u00026



 Supreme Court may block Wal-Mart bias lawsuit

Mark Sherman                    The Associated Press    
857 words
30 March 2011
Charleston Gazette
CGAZ
P2C
English
(Copyright 2011)    

WASHINGTON - The Supreme Court appears ready to block a massive sex discrimination lawsuit against Wal-Mart on behalf of up to 1.6 million women, and that could make it harder for other workers nationwide to bring class-action claims against large employers.

The 10-year-old lawsuit, argued in lively exchanges at the court Tuesday, claims that Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world's largest employer, favors men over women in pay and promotions. Billions of dollars is at stake if it is allowed to go forward.

The case also could affect the future of other class-action lawsuits that pool modest individual claims into a single action that creates the potential for a large judgment and increases the pressure on businesses to settle.

In Tuesday's arguments, several justices suggested they were troubled by the case and lower court decisions against Bentonville, Ark.-based Wal-Mart. Estimates of how many women could be included in the lawsuit run from 500,000 to 1.6 million.

Justice Anthony Kennedy, often a key vote on the high court, said the women's argument points in apparently conflicting directions.

"You said this is a culture where Arkansas knows, the headquarters knows, everything that's going on," Kennedy said to Joseph Sellers, the women's lawyer. "Then in the next breath, you say, well, now these supervisors have too much discretion. It seems to me there's an inconsistency there, and I'm just not sure what the unlawful policy is."

Sellers said that lower courts had been persuaded by statistical and other evidence put forth so far in the lawsuit. He said Wal-Mart's strong corporate culture stereotypes women as less aggressive than men and that translates into individual pay and promotion decisions at the more than 4,300 Wal-Mart and Sam's Club stores across the country.

"The decisions are informed by the values the company provides," Sellers said.

Justice Antonin Scalia said he felt "whipsawed" by Sellers' description. "Well, which is it?" Scalia asked. Either individual managers are on their own, "or else a strong corporate culture tells them what to do."

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said that at this stage of the lawsuit, the issue is not proving discrimination but showing enough evidence to go forward. "We're talking about getting a foot in the door," Ginsburg said, a standard she called not hard to meet.

Ginsburg, who made her name as a lawyer by bringing discrimination claims, said it was possible that Wal-Mart could refute the claims at a trial.

The court's other two female justices, Elena Kagan and Sonia Sotomayor, and Justice Stephen Breyer also appeared inclined to allow the lawsuit to proceed.

But several of their more conservative colleagues appeared to agree with Theodore Boutrous Jr., representing Wal-Mart, that even subjecting the company to a trial would be unfair.

That split among the justices raised the prospect of an ideologically divided ruling by the court this summer.

Boutrous said the class-action nature of the case deprives the company of its legal rights because it is being forced to defend the treatment of female employees regardless of the jobs they hold or where they work.

"There is absolutely no way there can be a fair process here," Boutrous said.

He pointed to a group of at least 544 women who serve as store managers who "are alleged to be both discriminators and victims."

Two of the named plaintiffs, Christine Kwapnoski and Betty Dukes, attended the argument. Kwapnoski is an assistant manager at a Sam's Club in Concord, Calif. Dukes is a greeter at the Wal-Mart in Pittsburg, Calif.

Their situations were discussed only briefly, with Boutrous noting how different they were as a way to argue they should not be dealt with in the same lawsuit.

Business interests have lined up with Wal-Mart while civil rights, women's and consumer groups have sided with the women plaintiffs.

Both sides have painted the case as extremely consequential. The business community has said that a ruling for the women would lead to a flood of class-action lawsuits based on vague evidence. Supporters of the women say that if the court sides with Wal-Mart, it could remove a valuable weapon for fighting all sorts of discrimination.

David Sanford, who represents plaintiffs in other class-action cases, said after the arguments that the court seemed inclined to rule against the Wal-Mart women. Sanford said such a decision could "have implications for class actions more generally, making it more difficult for women and minority groups to enjoy equality and fair treatment in the workplace."

The Obama administration is not taking part in the case, although it was lobbied by both sides.

The case is Wal-Mart Stores Inc. v. Dukes, 10-277.

AP photo

Betty Dukes (left) stands with other plaintiffs and their families outside of the Supreme Court Building in Washington on Tuesday. Other plaintiffs are Edith Arena (third from left), Deborah Gunter (fifth from left) and Christine Kwapnoski (second from right).

Document CGAZ000020110330e73u0003l



Calgary Business
Judges question Wal-Mart bias suit

James Vicini      
Reuters      
686 words
30 March 2011
Calgary Herald
CALH
Final
D2
English
Copyright © 2011 Calgary Herald      

Several Supreme Court justices sharply questioned Tuesday whether female employees at Wal-Mart Stores Inc. can proceed with the largest classaction sex-discrimination lawsuit in history that seeks billions of dollars.

At issue in the case was whether a small group of women who began the lawsuit 10 years ago against the world's largest retailer can represent a huge nationwide class that could total millions of women.

After attorneys for Wal-Mart and for the employees presented arguments, a crowd of protesters that had gathered outside the Supreme Court shouted "fair pay now" and carried signs such as "Stop discounting the women of Wal-Mart" and "The women of Wal-Mart are not worthless."

Chris Kwapnoski, a 24year Wal-Mart employee and one of the named plaintiffs in the case, confidently told reporters after the arguments, "We're not going to lose."

She recalled being told by a manager to "brush the cobwebs off" and "doll up" if she wanted advancement.

After listening to the attorneys, the top court took the case under advisement, with a ruling expected by late June. The decision could change the legal landscape for workplace and other class-action lawsuits.

During the session, some justices strongly questioned the arguments by the plaintiffs.

Justice Anthony Kennedy, a moderate conservative who often casts the decisive vote on the nine-member court, said, "I'm just not sure what the unlawful policy is."

Justice Antonin Scalia described as inconsistent the argument by the plaintiffs that Wal-Mart had a strong corporate culture that fostered stereotypes of women while at the same time giving local store managers too much discretion in pay and promotion decisions.

Scalia questioned whether it would be fair to the company for the case to proceed. "Is this really due process?" he asked.

Wal-Mart's attorney, Theodore Boutrous, who argued the case, said female employees in different jobs and in different stores do not have enough in common to be in a single class-action lawsuit.

"It's not fair to anyone to bring this in one big class," he told the justices.

Joseph Sellers, an attorney for the women, argued the class-action lawsuit should be allowed to go to trial for a decision on the merits of the claims. "This is an extraordinary case," he said.

Betty Dukes, a Wal-Mart employee in Pittsburg, Calif., for whom the case has been named, attended the arguments, along with Kwapnoski.

"Without a class action, I wouldn't be able to do anything about the discrimination. Wal-Mart is just too big. A class action gives us a fair shot. That is all we ask for," Dukes said.

Women's groups have said a Wal-Mart victory could signal a significant retreat for women's rights in the workplace.

Businesses said a Wal-Mart defeat could make every large corporation vulnerable to sweeping allegations of employment bias and would water down class-action requirements.

Large class-action lawsuits make it easier for big groups of plaintiffs to sue corporations and they have led to huge payouts by tobacco, oil and food companies.

Companies have sought to limit such lawsuits to individual or small groups of plaintiffs. The Supreme Court, with a conservative majority, has often agreed, dating back to 1997.

Legal experts and financial analysts said even if Wal-Mart loses in the Supreme Court and at trial, the retailer with more than $400 billion in sales and $16 billion in net income last year has enough cash to make a big payout.

Sanford Bernstein analyst Colin McGranahan said he estimates a settlement could cost roughly $1.5 billion. That equates to 26 cents per Wal-Mart share, or less than 0.5 per cent of the company's current share price.

He said Wal-Mart could "easily" fund that through existing liquidity or free cash flow

Larry Downing, Reuters / Plaintiff Betty Dukes speaks to the media on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued Tuesday.;      

Document CALH000020110330e73u0003d



Wal-Mart's women workers take case to US Supreme Court

446 words
30 March 2011
Business Line (The Hindu)
BSNLNE
22
English
(c) 2011 The Hindu Business Line      

Agence France-Presse

Washington, March 29

The US Supreme Court on Tuesday will hear a potentially landmark labour case on whether 1.5 million women employed by retail giant Wal-Mart can file a discrimination lawsuit as one unified group.

Female workers at the company, which is America's largest employer, claim that over the years, they systematically received lower pay than their male counterparts and were passed over for promotions, and are asking the US high court for the right to pursue legal action against the company as a group.

Lawyers representing the plaintiffs note that women at Wal-Mart make up about two-thirds of the hourly workers, but are only a fraction of store managers.

They also point out that in nearly every job category, women earned less than men, even though most had logged more years with the company than their male counterparts.

The women are seeking back wages they believe they are owed and punitive damages against Wal-Mart, as well as a change in its pay practices, which would affect both current and past company employees.

“Plaintiffs presented evidence that Wal-Mart managers undervalued women and espoused outdated stereotypes about their roles in the workplace,” said Ariela Migdal, staff attorney with the Women's Rights Project at the American Civil Liberties, which has filed a friend of the court brief in the case.

“The women allege that Wal-Mart's nationwide practice of leaving pay and promotion decisions up to local managers allowed the stereotypes to limit their opportunities. Because of this, the women should be able to pursue their class action,” said Migdal.

If the court allows the women to sue en bloc, the case would constitute the largest job-discrimination case in US history, with tens of billions of dollars at stake.

The ruling is expected to set a precedent for future labor discrimination lawsuits, opening the door for a possible flood of broadly defined “class action” cases on behalf of women, minorities and people with disabilities.

If the company loses, it faces the risk of legal action from the ensemble of female workers employed at Wal-Mart since 1998

On the other hand, a win for Wal-Mart could be a blow to nationwide job bias suits.

For its part, Wal-Mart maintains that it is impossible to assert a case of discrimination based on company employment figures, and says there is no pay difference between men and women at the vast majority of its outlets.

Instances where those differences exist are made on merit, not because of a discriminatory company-wide policy, Wal-Mart insists.

Document BSNLNE0020110329e73u00039



1
Supreme Court Hears Wal-Mart Bias Appeal

Kristi Ellis    
746 words
30 March 2011
WWD
WWD
2
ISSN: 0149-5380, Volume 201, Issue 65
English
© 2011 Condé Nast. All rights reserved.    

WASHINGTON

— The Supreme Court on Tuesday considered the legal grounds for class action certification in what could be the largest gender discrimination lawsuit in U.S. history, pitting Wal-Mart Stores Inc. against a small group of female employees who allege the world's largest retailer favored men over women in pay and promotions.

The justices wrestled with lower-court decisions allowing the class action lawsuit against Wal-Mart to move forward; the suit could affect more than one million current and former female employees of the store. Several of the justices focused on the underlying allegations in the suit, although the legal question before the court was whether the case can proceed as a class action.

Wal-Mart, in its appeal to the Supreme Court, contends that the women's case does not fulfill the legal requirements for class action certification. The company's appeal stems from a lawsuit filed in 2001 by Betty Dukes and five other female employees alleging the company's corporate structure discriminated against women regarding pay and promotions, among other accusations.

Wal-Mart argues that it has a strict company-wide policy that bars discrimination.

In 2004, the U.S. District Court for Northern California conferred class action status in the case to current and former female Wal-Mart employees dating back to 1998. A sharply divided U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco ruled in April 2010 that the gender discrimination complaint could go to trial as a class action. The ruling affirmed the lower court's certification and also allowed members to seek back pay and an injunction.

During arguments, Justices Anthony Kennedy, Samuel Alito and Antonin Scalia were particularly skeptical of the class action suit.

“It's not clear to me: What is the unlawful policy that Wal-Mart has adopted, under your theory of the case?” Kennedy asked Joseph Sellers, an attorney for the women.

Sellers argued that Wal-Mart provided its managers with “unchecked discretion” in pay and promotion matters, claiming it was this broad discretion that led Wal-Mart to “pay women less than men who were doing the same work in the same…facilities at the same time, even though…those women had more seniority and higher performance, and provided fewer opportunities for promotion than women because of sex.”

But Kennedy argued that the women's complaint “faces in two directions.”

“Number one, you said this is a culture where…the headquarters knows everything that's going on,” Kennedy said. “Then in the next breath, you say, well, now these supervisors have too much discretion. It seems to me there's an inconsistency there and I'm just not sure what the unlawful policy is.”

Sellers said Wal-Mart's management training program poses a question to trainees about why women are underrepresented in management and gives the response that men are more aggressive in seeking advancement — a stereotype he claimed influences their pay and promotion decisions.

“How could that possibly cause them to intentionally discriminate on the basis of sex?” Scalia asked.

Sellers said it is a written policy, “not the policy that was effectively communicated to managers.”

Chief Justice John Roberts, also expressing some skepticism about the case, said there are often “bad apples” in a company, which makes it difficult to determine whether discrimination “flows from the policy rather than from bad actors.”

Ultimately, the court will decide the narrow question of whether the case meets the standards to move forward as a class action.

Justice Stephen Breyer asked Theodore J. Boutrous Jr., Wal-Mart's attorney, why the case should not proceed as a class action certification at least in terms of injunctive relief.

“These plaintiffs are not typical and they are not arguing that everyone was affected the same way by the common policy [a standard of commonality must be met under class certification rules],” Boutrous said. “Many women thrived. Maybe some women stereotyped or some women stereotyped the other direction — 544 of the plaintiffs are female store managers. So it's impossible to make these sweeping generalizations, which, of course, is what stereotyping is supposed to prevent.”

Sellers argued that they have satisfied the certification requirements relating to all three standards because “there are disparities adverse to women” across the company and shared by all women.

A decision could come by this summer on whether the case can go forward as a class action.

Document WWD0000020110404e73u00005



Does the Wal-Mart bias case sweep in too many plaintiffs?; Does a sex    discrimination  class-action suit sweep in too many plaintiffs?

498 words
30 March 2011
Washington Post.com
WPCOM
English
Copyright 2011, The Washington Post Co.    All Rights Reserved.      

CLASS ACTIONS have been and should remain important tools to combat employment discrimination. These legal vehicles allow a small number of often brave individuals to step forward to assert grievances against their employer. These "named plaintiffs" act as proxies for a multitude of others who may have experienced similar harm. This strength-in-numbers approach can give workers the needed leverage to stop discriminatory practices or demand wages they were unfairly denied.

A class action against Wal-Mart Stores, filed nearly 10 years ago, aimed to address alleged discrimination against female employees who were denied equal pay or unfairly overlooked for promotions. Six women initially came forward; a California federal trial judge eventually allowed the suit to proceed on behalf of "all women who have worked at Wal-Mart since 1998." Roughly 1.5 million current and former female employees could be affected.

On Tuesday, the Supreme Court took up the Wal-Mart case to determine whether it should be allowed to advance. It is a close call, but on balance we think it should not in its current form.

The federal rules that govern class actions require that members of the class share "questions of law or fact [in] common"; they also require that "the representative parties will fairly and adequately protect the interests of the class." Lawyers for the plaintiffs argue that female employees have been hurt by the company's policy of giving managers on the local level almost unfettered discretion in personnel decisions. But if this discretion is nearly absolute, then how could the company itself be held accountable for an allegedly discriminatory nationwide policy that affects some 3,400 stores?

The diversity of the class in terms of geography and job type also raises concerns. The class includes part-time, hourly employees and salaried managers. Of the 120 or so affidavits submitted by women alleging to have been wronged, more than half came from six states; there were no claims of wrongdoing in 14 states where employees would nevertheless be included in the class action.

Fairness to all of the women involved is also an issue. Because of the way the lawsuit was crafted, the unnamed plaintiffs have had no say over whether they want to be part of the litigation. If the case proceeds as is, these women will be unable to vindicate their rights in the future, even if they have a stronger case — and stronger prospects for compensation — than the original named plaintiffs.

The court may well decide that the class as currently structured is not workable. In that case, the justices should give the women a chance to more narrowly tailor the class. They should also consider allowing individuals the opportunity to opt out. But in no case should they rule in a manner that would thwart the chances of having the women's grievances addressed.

Document WPCOM00020120909e73u00d90



Justices question next step for massive Wal-Mart discrimination  suit; Even Supreme Court justices who sharply questioned Wal-Mart’s pay and promotion policies regarding women employees expressed concern at Tuesday’s oral argument about how the largest gender    discrimination  class-action suit in history might proceed.

By Robert Barnes      
1,026 words
30 March 2011
Washington Post.com
WPCOM
English
Copyright 2011, The Washington Post Co.    All Rights Reserved.      

Supreme Court justices questioned the underpinnings of a massive class-action lawsuit against Wal-Mart on Tuesday and whether female employees could show that a common, discriminatory policy governed the company's pay and promotion decisions.

Even justices who seemed sympathetic to letting the largest gender discrimination lawsuit in history proceed to trial had questions about how it might go forward.

Lawyers for women suing the nation's largest retailer built their case on affidavits from more than 100 workers and a statistical model showing that, while women make up 80 percent of the company's hourly workers, they account for only 30 percent of its managers. They allege pay discrepancies, unequal promotion policies and a male-dominated management.

But some justices said they had trouble understandinghow, in the plaintiffs' view, Wal-Mart carried out its policy of discrimination.

"It's not clear to me: What is the unlawful policy that Wal-Mart has adopted, under your theory of the case?" asked Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, often the key vote on a divided court.

Joseph M. Sellers, a Washington lawyer who argued the case on behalf of Wal-Mart greeter Betty Dukes and other women, said Wal-Mart allowed great discretion to local managers to make pay and personnel decisions.

But he said the Bentonville, Ark.-based company instilled in those managers a sense of "the Wal-Mart way" that was used to "pay women less than men who were doing the same work in the same facilities at the same time . . . and provided fewer opportunities for promotion."

Kennedy was not satisfied.

"Your complaint faces in two directions. Number one, you said this is a culture where Arkansas knows, the headquarters knows, everything that's going on," Kennedy said. "Then in the next breath, you say, well, now these supervisors have too much discretion. It seems to me there's an inconsistency there."

Justice Antonin Scalia quickly picked up the theme.

"I'm getting whipsawed here," Scalia said. "On the one hand, you say the problem is that they were utterly subjective, and on the other hand you say there is a — a strong corporate culture that guides all of this. Well, which is it?"

The questions echoed Wal-Mart's argument that lower courts should not have certified a class-action suit against the company, because hiring practices and anecdotal evidence of discrimination cannot be tied to the company, which has an official policy of nondiscrimination.

"If the three named plaintiffs stand before the court, they are supposed to represent 500,000 or a million or more people," said Theodore J. Boutrous Jr., who represented Wal-Mart. "And the claim is that the individual decision-makers in those other cases exercised their discretion in a way that was biased, and there's no proof of that."

The issue before the court is not whether Wal-Mart is guilty of discrimination, but whether the women suing the company have made a compelling case that a jury should hear the issue.

The court's liberals stressed that point, and said that simply adopting a policy of nondiscrimination was not enough to insulate Wal-Mart from liability.

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said that even a company with such a policy must ask itself whether it is being enforced if the company receives reports "month after month" that women are underrepresented in managerial jobs and lag in pay.

"Isn't there some responsibility on the company to say, is gender discrimination at work, and if it is, isn't there an obligation to stop it?" Ginsburg asked.

Boutrous replied that Wal-Mart's study showed no pay discrepancies between men and women at 90 percent of the company's stores.

Justice Elena Kagan said she was "a little bit confused as to why excessive subjectivity is not a policy that can be alleged" as a discriminatory practice.

And Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Stephen G. Breyer reminded that if the suit were allowed to go forward, Wal-Mart would have a chance to prove the allegations false.

"Ultimately, you may win and prove to a fact-finder that this analysis is fatally flawed," Sotomayor said, but that does not mean the justices should overturn the decision of a federal judge and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit that the case should be heard.

But even Sotomayor and Ginsburg expressed concern about the suit. Sotomayor worried that using the plaintiffs' statistical model to award back pay would limit the company's right to defend against specific allegations.

And Ginsburg said she had a "very serious problem" with the way back pay, damages, and injunctive relief from Wal-Mart's allegedly discriminatory practices were all raised in the same class action.

That could lead to a narrow decision in which the court separated the issues and sent the case back to lower courts.

But other justices had concerns beyond the procedural. Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. asked, in effect, whether Wal-Mart is any different from other large companies.

Alito wondered whether a company would be in violation of civil rights laws if the disparities in its workforce were typical of other companies. Roberts ventured that Wal-mart might even be a little better.

"Is it true that Wal-Mart's pay disparity across the company was less than the national average?" Roberts asked Sellers.

The lawyer replied that the issue was not how Wal-Mart ranked.

"Wal-Mart's obligation . . . is to ensure that its managers do not make pay decisions because of sex, and the comparison that's relevant is between men and women at Wal-Mart, not the general population," Sellers said.

The case is Wal-Mart Stores Inc. v. Dukes. A decision could come any time before the court adjourns in late June.

barnesr@washpost.com

Document WPCOM00020120909e73u00czh



Justice Antonin Scalia ticketed for GW Parkway fender-bender; will he take it to court?; His car was towed after the four-car pileup; no one injured, and he made it to the bench on time for the Wal-Mart case.

By The Reliable Source      
405 words
30 March 2011
Washington Post.com
WPCOM
English
Copyright 2011, The Washington Post Co.    All Rights Reserved.      

Now here's a date in traffic court we'd like to attend: In the matter of Antonin Scalia and the George Washington Parkway pileup.

The Supreme Court justice was ticketed early Tuesday for his role in a four-car fender-bender. No injuries to anyone but the cars — including Scalia's, which had to be towed.

The accident happened just before 9 a.m. on what was to be a big day for the jurist: The nation's highest court was hearing arguments in the massive Wal-Mart gender  discrimination case. According to U.S. Park Police, Scalia was driving south on the parkway approaching Roosevelt Bridge when he rear-ended a car that had stopped for traffic, triggering a chain reaction.

Brooke Salkoff saw it all go down. The former NBC reporter told us she was just behind Scalia's vehicle, a shiny black BMW in the left lane. "It slammed into the car in front of his, which pushed the other two forward," and caused them all to skew into the right lane, she said.

Now, just as when you're in a fancy restaurant and everyone turns their head to see who walked in, it's only natural that everyone driving along a major commuter route out of McLean would want to rubberneck at something like this. Salkoff did, as her car inched past, and was rewarded by a surprising glimpse of a familiar face. Scalia was in a dress shirt, no jacket, with an unknotted bowtie hanging around his neck — and, interestingly enough, turned out to be driving himself. The car in front of his appeared pretty badly banged up, the other two less so. Scalia made it to the bench, though, in time for arguments at 10 a.m., a court spokeswoman said.

No doubt in Salkoff's mind that Scalia was at fault, as the driver who failed to brake. "I think that's an originalist interpretation," she quipped. Indeed, said the Park Police's Sgt. David Schlosser, the justice got a ticket for following too closely. Fine: $70, plus a $20 special assessment, or, said Schlosser, "he can contest it in court."

Document WPCOM00020120909e73u00br8



Business
Court looks ready to block massive Wal-Mart sex- discrimination  case Action could make it harder for other workers to bring class-action claims against large employers.

By MARK SHERMAN • Associated Press      
701 words
30 March 2011
St. Louis Post-Dispatch
SLMO
Third Edition
A6
English
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.    All Rights Reserved.      

0

WASHINGTON - The Supreme Court appears ready to block a massive sex discrimination lawsuit against Wal-Mart on behalf of as many as 1.6 million women, and that could make it harder for other workers nationwide to bring class-action claims against large employers.

The 10-year-old lawsuit, argued in lively exchanges at the court Tuesday, claims that Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world's largest employer, favors men over women in pay and promotions. Billions of dollars are at stake if it is allowed to go forward.

The case also could affect the future of other class-action lawsuits that pool modest individual claims into a single action that generates the potential for a large judgment and increases the pressure on businesses to settle.

In Tuesday's arguments, several justices suggested they were troubled by the case and by lower court decisions against Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville, Ark. Estimates of how many women could be included in the lawsuit run from 500,000 to 1.6 million.

Justice Anthony Kennedy, often a key vote on the high court, said the women's argument pointed in apparently conflicting directions.

"You said this is a culture where Arkansas knows, the headquarters knows, everything that's going on," Kennedy said to Joseph Sellers, the women's attorney.

"Then in the next breath, you say, well, now these supervisors have too much discretion. It seems to me there's an inconsistency there, and I'm just not sure what the unlawful policy is."

Sellers said that lower courts had been persuaded by statistical and other evidence put forth so far in the lawsuit. He said Wal-Mart's strong corporate culture stereotyped women as less aggressive than men and that translates into individual pay and promotion decisions at the more than 4,300 Wal-Mart and Sam's Club stores across the country.

"The decisions are informed by the values the company provides," Sellers said.

Justice Antonin Scalia said he felt "whipsawed" by Sellers' description. "Well, which is it?" Scalia asked. Either individual managers are on their own, "or else a strong corporate culture tells them what to do."

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said that at this stage of the lawsuit, the issue was not proving discrimination but showing enough evidence to go forward. "We're talking about getting a foot in the door," Ginsburg said, a standard she called not hard to meet. Ginsburg, who made her name as a lawyer by bringing discrimination claims, said it was possible that Wal-Mart could refute the claims at a trial.

The court's two other female justices, Elena Kagan and Sonia Sotomayor, and Justice Stephen Breyer also appeared inclined to allow the lawsuit to proceed.

But several of their more conservative colleagues appeared to agree with Theodore Boutrous Jr., representing Wal-Mart, that even subjecting the company to a trial would be unfair.

That split among the justices raised the prospect of an ideologically divided ruling by the court this summer.

Boutrous said the class-action nature of the case deprived the company of its legal rights because it was being forced to defend the treatment of female employees regardless of the jobs they held or where they worked.

"There is absolutely no way there can be a fair process here," he said.

He pointed to a group of at least 544 women who serve as store managers who "are alleged to be both discriminators and victims."

Business interests have lined up with Wal-Mart while civil rights, women's and consumer groups have sided with the female plaintiffs.

Photo by Jacquelyn Martin •    Associated Press - Plaintiffs Betty Dukes (from left), Deborah Gunter, Christine Kwapnoski and Edith Arena take part Tuesday in a news conference in Washington about the 10-year-old lawsuit claiming Wal-Mart favors men over women in pay and promotions. Estimates of how many women could be included in the lawsuit against the world's largest employer run from 500,000 to 1.6 million.      

Document SLMO000020110331e73u0002x



News
Wal-Mart and women employees duke it out

Val Boje      
361 words
30 March 2011
Pretoria News
PRETNW
E1
8
English
© Copyright 2011 Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited.    All rights reserved.      

The US Supreme Court was to hear a potentially landmark labour case yesterday on whether 1.5 million women employed by Wal-Mart can file a discrimination lawsuit as one group.

Female workers at the company, which is America's largest employer, claim that over the years they have systematically received lower pay than their male counterparts and been passed over for promotions. They are asking the US high court for the right to pursue legal action as a group.

The women are seeking backpay they believe they are owed and punitive damages against Wal-Mart, as well as a change in its pay practices, which would affect current and past company employees.

"Plaintiffs presented evidence that Wal-Mart managers undervalued women and espoused outdated stereotypes about their roles in the workplace," said Ariela Migdal, staff attorney with the Women's Rights Project at the American Civil Liberties Union, which has filed a friend of the court brief in the case.

If the court allows the women to sue en bloc, the case would constitute the largest job discrimination case in US history. Even more significantly, the ruling is expected to set a precedent for future labour discrimination lawsuits, opening the door for a possible flood of broadly defined "class action" cases on behalf of women, minorities and people with disabilities.

Legal observers say it is unlikely to rule in favour of the women, noting the US high court's pro-business, free market bias.

For its part, Wal-Mart maintains that it is impossible to assert a case of discrimination based on company employment figures, and that there is no pay difference between men and women at the vast majority of its outlets. Instances where those differences exist are made on merit, Wal-Mart insists. - Sapa-AFP

l Last week, the Competition Tribunal adjourned its hearings into the proposed multibillion-rand merger between Wal-Mart and local retailer Massmart, which owns Game, Makro and Builders Warehouse. Earlier the Competition Commission had recommended that Wal-Mart's proposed acquisition of 51 percent of equity in Massmart be approved. - Sapa-AFP

Document PRETNW0020110405e73u0002b



NATIONAL
HIGH COURT HAS ITS OWN GENDER RIFT IN BIAS CASE

David G Savage; James Oliphant      
603 words
30 March 2011
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
PPGZ
SOONER
A-1
English
© 2011 Post Gazette Publishing Company.    Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.    All rights reserved.        

WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court justices, sharply divided along gender lines, appeared poised to reject a nationwide class-action lawsuit that accuses Wal-Mart of sex discrimination after an argument over class actions became a debate over what constitutes sex discrimination in today's workplace.

The men and women in the black robes seemed to see the matter quite differently.

For the first time in its history, the high court has three women on the bench, and Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan asserted that a corporate policy of letting store managers decide on promotions could result in discrimination against women. The statistics strongly suggest that is what occurred, they said.

But most of the six men on the court -- led by Justices Anthony Kennedy and Antonin Scalia, -- questioned how Wal-Mart can be held liable for illegal sex bias, since its 3,400 store managers across the nation decide on who gets promoted and who receives pay raises.

"It's not clear to me: What's the unlawful policy that Wal-Mart has adopted?" Justice Kennedy said, since the company's written policy calls for equal treatment without regard to race or sex.

A lawyer representing the female plaintiffs argued Wal-Mart has a "corporate culture" that teaches mostly male supervisors that women are less aggressive than men and are less suited to being managers.

Unconvinced, Justice Scalia called that "an assessment of why the percentage [of women in management] is different," but it is not evidence of an illegal policy. Wal-Mart does not say "don't promote women," he said. "If you have an aggressive woman, promote her," he added.

Justice Ginsburg, who made her legal reputation in sex- discrimination law, said Wal-Mart's experience shows how "gender bias can creep" into the workplace. It isn't "at all complicated," she said. "Most people prefer themselves. And so a decision maker, all other things being equal, would prefer someone who looked like him."

The case heard Tuesday is the most important and far-reaching job- discrimination dispute to come before the high court in more than a decade. It could determine whether job-bias claims must proceed as individual lawsuits or instead as broad, class-action claims that rely mostly on statistics.

The Berkeley, Calif., lawyers who brought the sex-bias suit against the nation's largest retailer say that while about two- thirds of its employees were women when the statistics were compiled five years ago, men were 86 percent of the store managers. They also said women were paid less across the country, even though they had more seniority on average than men.

At issue before the court was whether these findings would allow this single suit to proceed as a class-action claim on behalf of 1.6 million women who have worked for Wal-Mart since 1998. If so, it would be by far the largest job-bias case in American history.

But the tenor of Tuesday's argument suggested the massive, decade- old suit might run aground before it can move toward a trial.

While the more conservative-leaning justices on the high court seemed the most hostile to the case, nearly all of its members appeared troubled by aspects of the litigation, ranging from concerns over how back pay would be awarded to class members to whether the company would be afforded an ample opportunity to defend itself against the accusations of discrimination.

A ruling in Wal-Mart v. Dukes is not likely until June.

Document PPGZ000020110330e73u0002i



Business awaits Wal-Mart decision Business awaits Walmart decision

Lisa Millar      
736 words
30 March 2011
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
ABCTRS
English
(c) 2011 Australian Broadcasting Corporation      

ELEANOR HALL: To the United States now and what could be the biggest sex discrimination lawsuit ever to hit the courts.

Six US women are taking on the world's biggest retailer, Wal-Mart.

The United States Supreme Court is about to rule on whether the women can act as a group to take a class action against the company on behalf of at least half a million other employees.

And as Washington correspondent Lisa Millar reports the case is being closely watched by other major US companies.

PROTESTERS: Fair pay now. Fair pay now. Fair pay now...

LISA MILLAR: While the justices deliberated inside, outside the protesters kept up their vigil - women like Sandra Carpenter who worked for Wal-Mart for two years.

SANDRA CARPENTER: I had a co-worker who was a maintenance supervisor - she's a female. Every male that came into that Wal-Mart to work, they came in making the same amount that it took her 10 years to get to.

So that was one of my personal experiences where I saw the gender discrimination.

Because Wal-Mart - you know, people don't want to believe it but they do tend to pay males more for the exact same job that females do just as well.

LISA MILLAR: Wal-Mart has 4,300 stores in the US and boasts on its web page of serving 200 million customers a week.

Betty Dukes started working there as a part-time cashier and despite 20 years experience in retail says she was paid less than her male colleagues and passed over time and again for promotions.

BETTY DUKES: Wal-Mart may be a big company, and that is no doubt. But they're not big enough that they can't be challenged in a court of law.

If you do wrong then you should be held accountable, from the least of us to the greatest of us.

LISA MILLAR: Betty Dukes is one of the six women who filed the sex discrimination case.

Christine Kwapnoski is another.

CHRISTINE KWAPNOSKI: That was actually before I got promoted when I was asking what I needed to do - I was told to blow the cobwebs off my makeup and to doll up.

LISA MILLAR: The question for the court is whether the small group of women who began the lawsuit 10 years ago can represent a huge nationwide class that some have estimated could number two million women.

Class action lawsuits have been successful in achieving big payouts in the past.

Wal-Mart says there's not enough proof that the women have enough in common to proceed as a class.

They worked in different stores, had different jobs and different managers and Gisel Ruiz who's has risen through the ranks at the retailer says Wal-Mart has taken equality seriously.

GISEL RUIZ: We've had policies - strong policies against discrimination in place long before the lawsuit was filed.

I remember learning about those policies when I joined the company, and as I grew up with the company then it became my responsibility to teach them forward.

When we hear issues coming from our associates we take action immediately. There are consequences for people who violate those policies.

LISA MILLAR: Lawyer, Brad Seligman, who specialises in civil rights, is leading the plaintiffs' case and says the numbers speak for themselves.

Statisticians reports show that women make up two-thirds of the hourly employees at Wal-Mart stores but fewer than 14 per cent of the store managers.

BRAD SELIGMAN: The other part of Wal-Mart's defence here is that if you put on a piece of paper, "We don't discriminate" that's a complete defence.

Well that's not what the Wal-Mart way has been through all the years.

There've been complaints about discrimination, there's a statistical pattern, and more importantly Wal-Mart senior management and their board of directors got periodic reports for the last 15 years telling them exactly what's going on out there.

LISA MILLAR: If the justices come down in favour of letting the women proceed in a class action it will be a worrying development for big business which will be under pressure to settle future claims or face costly judgements against them.

This is Lisa Millar in Washington for The World Today.

Document ABCTRS0020110330e73u0005q



Women take on Walmart in landmark case Women take on Walmart Business awaits Walmart decision

Washington correspondent Lisa Millar      
673 words
30 March 2011
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2011 Australian Broadcasting Corporation      

The United States Supreme Court will hear a potentially landmark case on whether 2 million women employed by retail giant Walmart can file a sex discrimination lawsuit as one unified group.

In a case that could have huge ramifications and is being closely watched by big business, the giant retailer is accused of not promoting women and paying them less than men.

The question for the court is whether the small group of women who began the lawsuit 10 years ago can represent a nationwide class.

One of the six women who filed the sex discrimination case, Betty Dukes, started working at Walmart as a part-time cashier.

Despite 20 years' experience in retail, she says she was paid less than her male colleagues and passed over time and again for promotions.

"Walmart may be a big company, and that is no doubt, but they're not big enough that they can't be challenged in a court of law," Ms Dukes said.

"If you do wrong, then you should be held accountable, from the least of us to the greatest of us."

Christine Kwapnoski is another of the six women filing the case.

"Before I got promoted when I was asking what I needed to do, I was told to blow the cobwebs off my make-up and to doll up," Ms Kwapnoski said.

While the justices deliberated inside the court, outside the protesters kept up their vigil - women like Sandra Carpenter who worked for Walmart for two years.

"I had a co-worker who was a maintenance supervisor - she's a female. Every male that came into that Walmart to work, they came in making the same amount that it took her 10 years to get to," Ms Carpenter said.

"So that was one of my personal experiences where I saw the gender discrimination.

"Because Walmart - you know, people don't want to believe it but they do tend to pay males more for the exact same job that females do just as well."

Walmart's policies

Walmart has 4,300 stores in the US and boasts on its webpage of serving 200 million customers a week.

Class-action lawsuits have been successful in achieving big payouts in the past.

Walmart says there is not enough proof the women have enough in common to proceed as a class.

They worked in different stores, had different jobs and different managers.

And Gisel Ruiz, who has risen through the ranks at the retailer, says Walmart has taken equality seriously.

"We've had policies - strong policies - against discrimination in place long before the lawsuit was filed," she said.

"I remember learning about those policies when I joined the company, and as I grew up with the company then it became my responsibility to teach them forward.

"When we hear issues coming from our associates we take action immediately. There are consequences for people who violate those policies."

Lawyer Brad Seligman, who specialises in civil rights, is leading the plaintiffs' case and says the numbers speak for themselves.

Statistician reports show women make up two-thirds of the hourly employees at Walmart stores but fewer than 14 per cent of the store managers.

"The other part of Walmart's defence here is that if you put on a piece of paper 'we don't discriminate', that's a complete defence," Mr Seligman said.

"Well that's not what the Walmart way has been through all the years.

"There've been complaints about discrimination, there's a statistical pattern, and more importantly Walmart senior management and their board of directors got periodic reports for the last 15 years telling them exactly what's going on out there."

If the justices come down in favour of letting the women proceed in a class action, it will be a worrying development for big business which will be under pressure to settle future claims or face costly judgments against them.

Document ABCNEW0020110330e73u000b9



Main Book - News
Wal-Mart class action reaches US courts

73 words
30 March 2011
i
IIND
1ST
2
English
© 2011 Independent Print Ltd.    All rights reserved      

News | The News Matrix The day at a glance SEX DISCRIMINATION

The largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history opened at the US Supreme Court yesterday, pitting Wal-Mart Stores against female employees who are seeking billions of dollars. Wal-Mart is accused of paying women less and giving them fewer promotions than men at 3,400 US stores since late 1998.

Document IIND000020120112e73u001d9



Business/Financial Desk; SECTB
Class Action At Wal-Mart Has Justices In Conflict

By ADAM LIPTAK 
1,148 words
30 March 2011
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
1
English
Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company.    All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court appeared closely divided on Tuesday during arguments over the theory put forth by the plaintiffs in an enormous sex discrimination class-action case against Wal-Mart.

Even some justices who seemed sympathetic to the plaintiffs expressed qualms about how to administer a lawsuit involving as many as 1.5 million women seeking back pay that could amount to billions of dollars. Others appeared worried about the consequences for other businesses of a ruling that would allow the case against Wal-Mart to go forward.

The mere certification of a class-action suit can prompt defendants to settle in light of the sums at stake, and the justices struggled to find a way to distinguish between gaps in pay that might have benign explanations and those caused by unlawful discrimination.

The court of Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. has recently issued a series of rulings in favor of plaintiffs suing for employment discrimination that cut against the court's pro-business reputation. The Wal-Mart case dwarfs those rulings in importance. It is the largest employment discrimination class action in history, and the court's decision, expected by June, will probably be its most important business ruling this term.

The issue before the justices at Tuesday's arguments was not whether Wal-Mart, the country's largest retailer and biggest private employer, discriminated against women who worked there. For now, the question in the case, Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes, No. 10-277, is whether hundreds of thousands of female workers have enough in common to join together in a single lawsuit.

The plaintiffs' theory is that a centralized companywide policy gave local managers too much discretion in pay and promotion decisions, leaving Wal-Mart vulnerable to gender stereotypes. The plaintiffs have presented sworn statements and statistics to support their claim.

Wal-Mart calls that evidence unrepresentative and unreliable. The company says its policies expressly bar discrimination and promote diversity. In any event, the company says, the plaintiffs -- who worked in 3,400 stores in 170 job classifications -- do not have enough in common to warrant class-action treatment.

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy said the theory about how the company discriminated -- through a central policy conferring local discretion -- was internally inconsistent. ''Your complaint faces in two directions,'' he told a lawyer for the plaintiffs.

But Justice Stephen G. Breyer said Wal-Mart could be held accountable if it failed to take action in the face of reports of discrimination from its stores. ''Should central management under the law have withdrawn some of the subjective discretion in order to stop these results?'' Justice Breyer asked.

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg agreed, saying that companies had a responsibility to make sure that women were treated fairly in local workplaces. And Justice Elena Kagan said that ''excessive subjectivity'' may be a policy that violates the civil rights laws.

But Justice Antonin Scalia was unconvinced.

''I'm getting whipsawed here,'' he told the plaintiffs' lawyer, Joseph M. Sellers. ''On the one hand, you say the problem is that they were utterly subjective, and on the other hand you say there is strong corporate culture that guides all of this. Well, which is it?''

Mr. Sellers responded that ''there is this broad discretion given the managers'' but that ''they do not make their decisions in a vacuum.'' Managers, he went on, ''are informed by the company about how to exercise that discretion.''

That did not satisfy Justice Scalia. ''If somebody tells you how to exercise discretion,'' he said, ''you don't have discretion.''

Theodore J. Boutrous Jr., a lawyer for Wal-Mart, said the handful of women named as plaintiffs who seek to represent the entire class did not have typical experiences at the company.

''Each of the plaintiffs have very different stories,'' he said. ''One of them was promoted into a managerial position. One was terminated for disciplinary violations. One was promoted and then had a disciplinary problem and then was demoted.''

He added that ''this class includes at least 544 store managers who are alleged to be discriminators and victims.''

Several justices had practical concerns.

''What seems to me a very serious problem in this case is, how do you work out the back pay?'' Justice Ginsburg asked.

Mr. Sellers said the trial court could rely on statistics culled from company databases, which he said were more reliable than the evidence that might be presented in individualized hearings given the available information about particular pay and promotion decisions. Memories have faded, he said, and Wal-Mart did not keep good records.

Given that, Mr. Sellers said, Wal-Mart's personnel decisions were ''standardless'' and ''recordless.''

Justice Kennedy responded with a point about the suitability of the case for class-action treatment. ''If it's standardless and recordless,'' he said, ''then why is there commonality?''

Mr. Boutrous said Mr. Sellers was trying to have it both ways.

''The problem here, Mr. Sellers says, is that the records are not available,'' Mr. Boutrous said. ''Then he says we're going to have a proceeding where the district judge relies only on the records that he says are inadequate, to allow a reconstruction of the decision. That is not a process known to our jurisprudence. It doesn't comport with due process.

Several justices voiced concerns about how many companies could be subject to class-action suits if they allowed the case against Wal-Mart to go forward.

''Is it true,'' Chief Justice Roberts asked Mr. Sellers, ''that Wal-Mart's pay disparity across the company was less than the national average?''

Mr. Sellers said that was not the appropriate comparison. ''The comparison that's relevant,'' he said, ''is between men and women and Wal-Mart.'' He added later that ''Wal-Mart was behind the other large retailers.''

The chief justice also asked Mr. Sellers ''how many examples of abuse of the subjective discrimination delegation need to be shown before you can say that flows from the policy rather than from bad actors?'' After all, he said, ''you're going to have some bad apples'' given Wal-Mart's thousands of stores.

Mr. Sellers responded that ''there is no minimum number'' in court decisions.

Justices Kennedy and Samuel A. Alito Jr. said they were concerned about companies whose pay and promotion gaps mirror national numbers where there is no proof of a discriminatory policy.

''So, you have the company that is absolutely typical of the entire American work force,'' Justice Alito said. ''Then you would say every single company is in violation of Title VII'' of the Civil Rights Act?

''That could very well be the case,'' Mr. Sellers said.

PHOTO: Betty Dukes, a plaintiff in the Wal-Mart case, center, spoke outside the Supreme Court. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2)

Document NYTF000020110330e73u0004f



U.S. Supreme Court
Justices Appear Skeptical of Certifying Class for Bias Action Against Wal-Mart

BY TONY MAURO WASHINGTON      
1,063 words
30 March 2011
New York Law Journal
NYLJ
p.2, col.1
Volume 245; Issue 60
English
Copyright 2011 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

THE MASSIVE class action against retail giant Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ran into stiff resistance at the U.S. Supreme Court yesterday, after surviving lower court challenges ever since it was launched 10 years ago.

"It's not clear to me: What is the unlawful policy that Wal-Mart has adopted?" said Justice Anthony Kennedy, who, as usual, is the likely swing vote in the closely watched business case Wal-Mart v. Dukes, 10-277. The outcome of the dispute, involving as many as 3 million female current and former workers, could cost Wal-Mart billions in back pay or limit the use of class actions as a civil rights remedy.

Picking up on a point made by Wal-Mart, Justice Kennedy told the lawyer for the plaintiffs that his argument "faces in two directions." Plaintiffs claim that gender discrimination at Wal-Mart resulted from excess discretion given to local store managers on the one hand and a companywide "corporate culture" that led to biased decisions on the other.

"I'm getting whipsawed here," said Justice Antonin Scalia, following up on Justice Kennedy's concern. "Which is it?"

Joseph Sellers, the plaintiffs' lawyer, said that although managers are given "broad discretion," they "do not make these decisions in a vacuum." The justices did not seem satisfied with his answer, and Mr. Sellers told the justices the concern they were raising would be resolved at trial, "not at this stage."

At another point Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. suggested that, even if a significant number of cases of gender bias in pay and promotion are reported at Wal-Mart stores, it could be the result of a "few bad apples" being magnified by the size of the chain—more than 3,400 stores when the class action case was first filed in 2001.

The chief justice also said Wal-Mart's pay disparity for women was "less than the national average," but Mr. Sellers responded that national statistics do not reduce the chain's "obligation under Title VII."

As those comments suggest, several justices seemed eager to debate the merits of the discrimination case, even though the issue before the Court is a threshold one: whether women employees at Wal-Mart had enough in common to certify a class under federal rules of civil procedure governing class actions, and whether such a class could, if successful, win back-pay damages or merely an injunction against future discrimination.

After the argument, David Sanford of Sanford Wittels & Heisler, a plaintiffs' lawyer not involved in the case but who was in attendance, said the tenor of the questioning led him to worry that the justices "may roll back" the rights of women in the workplace.

"If the court rules against the Wal-Mart women, Congress will have to act, as it did after the Ledbetter decision," a reference to legislation enacted in 2009 to counter a U.S. Supreme Court ruling on the statute of limitations for filing claims under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Ledbetter v. Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, 550 U.S. 618 (2007)).

Both the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California and a divided U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit certified the class in the Wal-Mart case. The plaintiffs' lawyer, Mr. Sellers, along with Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Elena Kagan and Sonia Sotomayor, tried to steer the argument back to the certification issue. They had limited success.

Outside the Court, a group of noisy demonstrators protested against Wal-Mart, while inside the courtroom was packed with spectators, including named plaintiff Betty Dukes and Christine Kwapnoski, who still work at Wal-Mart.

Also sitting in the public section of the audience was Eugene Scalia, a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher and son of Justice Scalia. A group of Wal-Mart critics urged the justice to recuse himself because a Gibson Dunn partner of his son's, Theodore Boutrous Jr., was arguing for Wal-Mart, and Mr. Scalia has represented Wal-Mart in the past.

It was Mr. Boutrous' first argument before the Court, though he is a veteran of complex corporate defense work.

Mr. Sellers is a name partner at Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll in Washington and a longtime civil rights litigator who has argued at the high court once before.

Mr. Boutrous planted the seed for the justices' doubts about the plaintiffs' argument in his own presentation, asserting that it was an "incoherent theory" to argue that Wal-Mart hiring decisions are both decentralized at the store level and centralized by corporate policy. Justice Kagan suggested in response that "excessive subjectivity" could in itself be a companywide policy.

Instead of making broad statements about the potential harm to Wal-Mart if the class action is upheld, Mr. Boutrous stuck to the details of class action requirements. He attacked the statistical and sociological evidence the plaintiffs presented to win creation of the class as insufficient to meet the requirements of commonality. And he defended the company as one with a clear policy and track record favoring the hiring of women.

Mr. Boutrous stopped short of saying that class actions are never appropriate for attacking discrimination, and the justices did not appear ready to go that far, either.

During the argument, Mr. Sellers also dwelled on the class details, but when asked about the merits, he did not shy away. He talked about evidence that at the Sam Walton Institute, managers were presented with the statement that women are underrepresented in management because "men seeking advancement are more aggressive."

Mr. Sellers said, "That's a typical, stereotypical statement provided to every person going through the management training program."

In addition, Mr. Sellers cited testimony from a Wal-Mart vice president that the policy against discrimination against women was "lip service"—a claim that Justice Scalia asked Mr. Boutrous about during his rebuttal.

"I'm glad you asked about that, Justice Scalia," Mr. Boutrous said. The company official said the policy would have been lip service if it had not been tied to compensation, he said.

@| Tony Mauro covers the U.S. Supreme Court for ALM, the Law Journal's parent. He can be contacted at tmauro@alm.com.      

Document NYLJ000020110406e73u0000b

A
Wal-Mart sex-bias case hits possible court block

Mark Sherman; Associated Press      
614 words
30 March 2011
Naples Daily News
NAPLES
Naples Daily News
13
English
Copyright 2011 Scripps Howard Publishing, Inc. All Rights Reserved        

WASHINGTON – The Supreme Court appears ready to block a massive sex discrimination lawsuit against Wal-Mart on behalf of up to 1.6 million women, and that could make it harder for other workers nationwide to bring class-action claims against large employers.

The 10-year-old lawsuit, argued in lively exchanges at the court Tuesday, claims Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world's largest employer, favors men over women in pay and promotions. Billions of dollars are at stake if it is allowed to go forward.

The case also could affect the future of other class-action lawsuits that pool modest individual claims into a single action that creates the potential for a large judgment and increases pressure on businesses to settle.

In Tuesday's arguments, several justices suggested they were troubled by the case and lower court decisions against Bentonville, Ark.-based Wal-Mart. Estimates of how many women could be included in the lawsuit run from 500,000 to 1.6 million.

Justice Anthony Kennedy, often a key vote on the high court, said the women's argument points in apparently conflicting directions.

"You said this is a culture where Arkansas knows, the headquarters knows, everything that's going on," Kennedy said to Joseph Sellers, the women's lawyer. "Then in the next breath, you say, well, now these supervisors have too much discretion. It seems to me there's an inconsistency there, and I'm just not sure what the unlawful policy is."

Sellers said that lower courts had been persuaded by statistical and other evidence put forth so far in the lawsuit. He said Wal-Mart's strong corporate culture stereotypes women as less aggressive than men and that translates into individual pay and promotion decisions at the more than 4,300 Wal-Mart and Sam's Club stores across the country.

"The decisions are informed by the values the company provides," Sellers said.

Justice Antonin Scalia said he felt "whipsawed" by Sellers' description. "Well, which is it?" Scalia asked. Either individual managers are on their own, "or else a strong corporate culture tells them what to do."

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said that at this stage of the lawsuit, the issue is not proving discrimination but showing enough evidence to go forward.

"We're talking about getting a foot in the door," Ginsburg said, a standard she called not hard to meet. Ginsburg, who made her name as a lawyer by bringing discrimination claims, said it was possible Wal-Mart could refute the claims at a trial.

The court's other two female justices, Elena Kagan and Sonia Sotomayor, and Justice Stephen Breyer also appeared inclined to allow the lawsuit to proceed.

But their more conservative colleagues appeared to agree with Theodore Boutrous Jr., representing Wal-Mart, that even subjecting the company to a trial would be unfair.

That split among the justices raised the prospect of an ideologically divided ruling by the court this summer.

Boutrous said the class-action nature of the case deprives the company of its legal rights because it is being forced to defend the treatment of female employees regardless of the jobs they hold or where they work.

"There is absolutely no way there can be a fair process here," Boutrous said.

David Sanford, who represents plaintiffs in other class-action cases, said after the arguments the court seemed inclined to rule against the Wal-Mart women. Sanford said such a decision could "have implications for class actions more generally, making it more difficult for women and minority groups to enjoy equality and fair treatment in the workplace."

Document NAPLES0020110330e73u0000b



Business
U.S. court questions big Wal-Mart sex- discrimination  suit; Class action at issue; Ruling expected by June, may set precedent

JAMES VICINI      
Reuters      
688 words
30 March 2011
Montreal Gazette
MTLG
Final
B7
English
Copyright © 2011 Montreal Gazette      

U.S. Supreme Court justices sharply questioned Tuesday whether more than one million female employees can join together against Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history.

The justices seemed sympathetic to Wal-Mart in considering whether a small group of women who began the lawsuit against the world's largest retailer 10 years ago can represent a huge nationwide class.

Justice Anthony Kennedy, a moderate conservative who often casts the decisive vote on the nine-member court, said, "I'm just not sure what the unlawful policy is."

Potentially liability could reach billions of dollars.

Even if Wal-Mart loses at the Supreme Court and then at trial, financial analysts said the Bentonville, Ark.-based company has more than enough cash to make a big payout with little impact on its profits.

A crowd of protesters gathered outside the court, shouting "Fair pay now" and carrying signs such as "Stop discounting the women of Wal-Mart" and "The women of Wal-Mart are not worthless."

Chris Kwapnoski, a 24-year Wal-Mart employee and one of the named plaintiffs in the case, told reporters after the arguments, "We're not going to lose."

She recalled being told by a manager to "brush the cobwebs off" and "doll up" if she wanted advancement.

"Wal-Mart is trying their level best to keep us out of court so the facts will not be presented to the public at large or before a sitting jury," said Betty Dukes, a Wal-Mart employee in Pittsburg, Calif., who first filed a law suit against the retailer in 2001.

The court is likely to make a ruling by late June. The decision could change the legal landscape for workplace and other class-action lawsuits, affecting a similar case against Costco Wholesale Corp.

Businesses say a Wal-Mart defeat could make every large corporation vulnerable to sweeping allegations of employment bias and would water down class-action requirements.

The Supreme Court is only deciding whether the lawsuit can go to trial as a group. If the court rejects the class-action status, the individual women still can sue, both sides in the case say.

Large class-action lawsuits make it easier for big groups of plaintiffs to sue corporations and they have led to huge payouts by tobacco, oil and food companies.

During the session, some justices strongly questioned the women's arguments.

Justice Antonin Scalia said he felt "whipsawed" by the plaintiffs' argument and said they had not made clear whether it was Wal-Mart's corporate culture or local store managers who were allegedly at fault for lower pay and fewer promotions to women. "Which is it?" he asked.

Scalia questioned if it would be fair to the company for the case to proceed. "Is this really due process?" he asked.

Wal-Mart's attorney, Theodore Boutrous, said female employees in different jobs and in different stores do not have enough in common to be in a single class-action lawsuit.

"It's not fair to anyone to put this all into one big class," he told the justices, adding the company has a strong policy against discrimination.

Joseph Sellers, an attorney for the women, argued the class-action lawsuit should be allowed to go to trial for a decision on the merits of the claims. "This is an extraordinary case," he said.

Women's groups have said a Wal-Mart victory could signal a significant retreat for women's rights in the workplace.

Companies have sought to limit such lawsuits to individual or small groups of plaintiffs. The Supreme Court, with a conservative majority, has often agreed.

The Supreme Court case is Wal-Mart Stores Inc v. Betty Dukes, No. 10-277.

LARRY DOWNING REUTERS / Anti-Wal-Mart protesters rally in front of the U.S. Supreme Court, where justices will decide whether to grant class-action status. Individuals could still sue if the class action is not granted.;      

Document MTLG000020110330e73u0003s



LOR
WASHINGTON: Walmart is asking the US Supreme Court to end a massive sex...

ryan cresswell      
95 words
30 March 2011
Cape Argus
MEWCAP
E1
15
English
© Copyright 2011 Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited.    All rights reserved.      

WASHINGTON: Walmart is asking the US Supreme Court to end a massive sex discrimination lawsuit on behalf of at least 500 000 women claiming that the world's largest retailer favours men over women in pay and promotions.

The court was set to hear arguments yesterday in a 10-year-old legal fight that could cost Walmart billions of dollars if the lawsuit is allowed to go forward as a class action. Walmart denies it discriminates against female workers.

Document MEWCAP0020110405e73u0000n

National News
Tough Sell for Plaintiffs in Wal-Mart Class Action

BY TONY MAURO The National Law Journal      
1,522 words
30 March 2011
The Legal Intelligencer
LINTEL
4
Volume 243; Issue 61
English
Copyright 2011 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

The massive class action against retail giant Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ran into stiff resistance at the U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday, after surviving lower court challenges ever since it was launched 10 years ago.

"It's not clear to me: What is the unlawful policy that Wal-Mart has adopted?" said Justice Anthony Kennedy, who as usual is the likely swing vote in the closely watched business case Wal-Mart v. Dukes. The outcome of the dispute, involving as many as 3 million female current and former workers, could cost Wal-Mart billions in back pay or limit the use of class actions as a civil rights remedy.

Picking up on a point made by Wal-Mart, Kennedy told the lawyer for the plaintiffs that his argument "faces in two directions." Plaintiffs claim that gender discrimination at Wal-Mart resulted from excess discretion given to local store managers on the one hand and a companywide "corporate culture" that led to biased decisions on the other hand.

"I'm getting whipsawed here," said Justice Antonin Scalia, following up on Kennedy's concern. "Which is it?"

Joseph Sellers, the plaintiffs' lawyer, said that, although managers are given "broad discretion," they "do not make these decisions in a vacuum." The justices did not seem satisfied with his answer, and Sellers told the justices the concern they were raising would be resolved at the trial, "not at this stage."

At another point Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. suggested that, even if a significant number of cases of gender bias in pay and promotion are reported at Wal-Mart stores, it could be the result of a "few bad apples" being magnified by the size of the chain — more than 3,400 stores when the class action case was first filed in 2001. Roberts also said Wal-Mart's pay disparity for women was "less than the national average," but Sellers responded that national statistics do not reduce the chain's "obligation under Title VII."

As those comments suggest, several justices seemed eager to debate the merits of the discrimination case, even though the issue before the court is a threshold one: whether women employees at Wal-Mart had enough in common to certify a class under federal rules of civil procedure governing class actions, and whether such a class could, if successful, win back-pay damages or merely an injunction against future discrimination.

After the argument David Sanford of Sanford Wittels & Heisler, a plaintiffs' lawyer not involved in the case but who was in attendance, said the tenor of the questioning led him to worry that the justices "may roll back" the rights of women in the workplace. "If the court rules against the Wal-Mart women, Congress will have to act, as it did after the Ledbetter decision," a reference to legislation enacted in 2009 to counter a Supreme Court ruling on the statute of limitations for filing claims under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

Both the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California and a divided 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals certified the class. The plaintiffs' lawyer, Sellers, along with Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Elena Kagan and Sonia Sotomayor, tried to steer the argument back to the certification issue. They had limited success.

Outside the court, a group of noisy demonstrators protested against Wal-Mart, while inside the courtroom was packed with spectators, including named plaintiff Betty Dukes and Christine Kwapnoski, who still work at Wal-Mart.

Also sitting in the public section of the audience was Eugene Scalia, a partner at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher and son of Justice Antonin Scalia. A group of Wal-Mart critics urged the justice to recuse because a Gibson Dunn partner of his son's, Theodore Boutrous Jr., is arguing for Wal-Mart, and Eugene Scalia has represented Wal-Mart in the past.

It was Boutrous' first argument before the court, though he is a veteran of complex corporate defense work. The plaintiffs' lawyer, Sellers, is a name partner at Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll in Washington and a longtime civil rights litigator who has argued at the high court once before.

Boutrous planted the seed for the justices' doubts about the plaintiffs' argument in his own presentation, asserting that it was an incoherent theory to argue that Wal-Mart hiring decisions are both decentralized at the store level and centralized by corporate policy. Kagan suggested in response that "excessive subjectivity" could in itself be a companywide policy.

Instead of making broad statements about the potential harm to Wal-Mart if the class action is upheld, Boutrous stuck to the details of class action requirements. He attacked the statistical and sociological evidence the plaintiffs presented to win creation of the class as insufficient to meet the requirements of commonality. And he defended the company as one with a clear policy and track record favoring the hiring of women.

Boutrous stopped short of saying that class actions are never appropriate for attacking discrimination, and the justices did not appear ready to go that far, either.

"It does not seem that the court is interested in throwing out class actions," said plaintiffs' lawyer John Mahoney, a Washington partner at Tully Rinckey. "Rather they're interested in whether the facts of this case equal a class action. That's hopefully good news for plaintiffs but not necessarily the plaintiffs in this case."

During the argument, Sellers also dwelled on the class details, but when asked about the merits, he did not shy away. He talked about evidence that at the Sam Walton Institute, managers were presented with the statement that women are underrepresented in management because "men seeking advancement are more aggressive." Sellers said, "That's a typical, stereotypical statement provided to every person going through the management training program."

In addition, Sellers cited testimony from a Wal-Mart vice president that the policy against discrimination against women was "lip service" — a claim that Scalia asked Boutrous about during his rebuttal. "I'm glad you asked about that, Justice Scalia," Boutrous said. The company official said the policy would have been lip service if it had not been tied to compensation, Boutrous said.

In upholding the class certification, an en banc panel of the 9th Circuit last year accepted the anecdotal evidence of bias against women presented by the plaintiffs, as well as social science testimony asserting that Wal-Mart's culture created "a conduit for gender bias" throughout its stores.

Judge Michael Hawkins, writing for the 6-5 majority, agreed with the district court that "it would be better to handle some parts of this case as a class action instead of clogging the federal courts with innumerable individual suits litigating the same issues repeatedly."

In dissent, Judge Sandra Ikuta said the class was too large and unwieldy. "On its face, a class action of this sort makes no sense."

In another dissent, Judge Alex Kozinski said that, with a "kaleidoscope" of supervisors and different work settings, the women in the proposed class "have little in common but their sex and this lawsuit."

The 9th Circuit also found that the class could seek back pay for class members even though Rule 23(b)(2) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure authorizes injunctive and declaratory relief. Classes certified under that rule are mandatory, without opt-out provisions for class members.

That issue did not occupy much time at the argument, but Proskauer Rose special employment counsel Amanda Haverstick, who attended the argument, said enough justices expressed concerns about the fairness of back-pay penalties that "it is possible the court will affirm the class but take the backpay aspect out of it." That would leave injunctive relief — in the form of future training programs and the like — as the main remedy if the class action prevails.

One issue that was prominent in the briefing before the case was argued did not come up at all during argument. Amicus curiae briefs for Wal-Mart asserted that large class actions force companies into "blackmail settlements." Roy Englert Jr. of Robbins Russell Englert Orseck Untereiner & Sauber, in a brief for Intel Corp., said, "Class certification can transform an ordinary lawsuit into 'bet-the-company' litigation. ... But companies can seldom afford to make such wagers — no matter how small the odds are of an adverse judgment — so class certification almost always coerces an immediate settlement."

In a brief on behalf of a group of economics and law professors, Robert Libman of Miner Barnhill & Galland in Chicago responded, "The myth of 'blackmail settlements' has led to unsubstantiated claims that, as class numerosity and the size of potential judgment awards increase, so too does the likelihood that class action plaintiffs are merely taking advantage of risk-averse defendant corporations."

Tony Mauro is the U.S. Supreme Court correspondent for The National Law Journal, a Legal affiliate based in New York. This article first appeared on The NLJ's "Supreme Court Insider" online newsletter.      

Document LINTEL0020110406e73u00005



UPDATE 2-Wal-Mart launches Canada supercenter "onslaught"

585 words
30 March 2011
08:39 AM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

* Three Quebec locations to be converted into supercenters

* Will have 164 supercenters in Canada by January 2012

* Wal-Mart moves before Target enters market

(Updates with details, comments, background)

By Solarina Ho

TORONTO, March 30 (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Canada , said on Wednesday it plans open three more supercenters in the province of Quebec this year, the latest move by the behemoth to get ahead of U.S. rival Target before Target opens its doors in Canada.

Wal-Mart, which currently operates 325 stores in Canada, stepped up its supercenter plans following the long-awaited announcement that U.S. discount chain Target Corp would finally debut north of the border. By January 2012, Wal-Mart is expected to have 333 stores, including 164 supercenters, in Canada. [ID:nN26243759]

Target announced in January that it plans to open up to 150 stores in Canada by 2014 by taking over leases of Canada's Zellers stores.

"It's going to be a while before (Target) gets their stores up and running. My sense of Wal-Mart in Canada this year is a full-fledged supercenter onslaught," said Brian Sozzi, an analyst at Wall Street Strategies, noting that Wal-Mart wants to boost its food sales, particularly as traffic at its Canadian stores is falling.

Wal-Mart Canada, a unit of the world's biggest retailer Wal-Mart Stores, has been ramping up expansion plans in Canada, where retail sales have been stronger than in the United States and where competition has been heating up as more U.S. retailers enter the market.

"Canada is much healthier in terms of retail even though it's not a barn-burner by any means," said Ed Strapagiel, executive vice president at KubasPrimedia, a consulting firm.

"There's a whole list of U.S. retailers on their way to Canada or seriously considering it. Yes, that's going to put some pressure on the incumbents, whether they are Canadian-owned or U.S.-owned."

Wal-Mart said it was converting its Vaudreuil, Saint-Eustache and Saint-Jerome locations into supercenters this year, adding to three other Quebec locations already set to open this summer. The company announced the province's first supercenter in January, when it unveiled plans to open 40 more of the large-format stores in Canada. [ID:nSGE70P04W]

It already has 128 supercenters -- which are Wal-Mart stores with the addition of full-service supermarkets -- in Ontario, Alberta, British Columbia and Saskatchewan.

"Canada is a hidden gem inside Wal-Mart. I think it's a big opportunity for them and they have to get the supercenter roll-out correct," Sozzi said.

ROCKY HISTORY

The company's expansion in Quebec, Canada's second most populous province, has had a rocky history. The company closed a store in Jonquiere, Quebec, several years ago after a union was certified to negotiate a collective agreement.

Wal-Mart, which employs 85,000 workers in Canada and two million worldwide, is no stranger to labor problems. It is currently embroiled in the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history. [ID:nN29275341]

Analysts don't foresee any more major labor problems ahead in Canada, although minor snags may arise.

"I think any time when you a company expanding as aggressively as they have -- and Wal-Mart being quite large -- you can't rule something like that out," Sozzi said.

($1=$0.97 Canadian) (Reporting by Solarina Ho; editing by Peter Galloway)

WALMART/ (UPDATE 2)      

Document LBA0000020110330e73u000t4



SCOTUS To Decide If Wal-Mart Class Action Suit Is Too Large

Nina Totenberg 
566 words
29 March 2011
NPR: Morning Edition
MGED
English
Copyright 2011 NPR. All rights reserved.    Visit our website terms of use and permissions page at www.npr.org for further information.    NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by a contractor for NPR, and accuracy and availability may vary.    This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future.    Please be aware that the authoritative record of NPR's programming is the audio. 

RENEE MONTAGNE: This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I'm Renee Montagne.

STEVE INSKEEP: Today, the United States Supreme Court takes on the biggest employment discrimination case in history. It involves one of the biggest retailers in history - Wal-Mart. Lawyers challenging the company say they represent one and a half million of Wal-Mart's current and former female workers. The justices will decide if Wal-Mart is too big to be sued in a single class action case. Here's NPR legal affairs correspondent Nina Totenberg.

NINA TOTENBERG: Everything about this case is too big, says Wal-Mart's lawyer, Ted Boutrous.

TED BOUTROUS: They have brought a case that implicates 3,400 stores around the country, women at all different levels of the store, from the store managers to the entry level positions.

TOTENBERG: But lawyer Joseph Sellers, representing the women, counters that class actions were created to deal efficiently with large numbers of similar claims.

JOSEPH SELLERS: The majority of the women in this class have held five jobs. These are cookie-cutter type jobs. So the fact that there may be multiple stores doesn't mean the jobs are any different.

TOTENBERG: Both sides have examples to prove their point. On one side are the half dozen named female plaintiffs, like Christine Kwapnoski, suing on behalf of other similarly situated women. Kwapnoski is a 46-year-old divorced mother of two, who says, for example, that when she complained about a male employee with less experience getting more money...

CHRISTINE KWAPNOSKI: I was told that one male had a family to support.

TOTENBERG: To counter that picture, Wal-Mart trots out its vice president for human resources, Gisel Ruiz, who worked her way up from assistant manager trainee to store manager, then regional vice president in charge of 150 stores, ultimately to the job she now holds.

GISEL RUIZ: My experiences do not match up with the claims that the plaintiffs are making. And I'm not the only one. I'm not an exception.

TOTENBERG: Wal-Mart contends that the theory on which this lawsuit was brought is both spurious and radical. Ted Boutrous notes that 20 other large American companies, from Microsoft to GE, have filed a brief in the case contending that if the large class here is certified to go forward, similar and potentially ruinous suits could follow elsewhere.

BOUTROUS: The plaintiffs swung for the fences here, and instead of seeking the normal kind of class action where you would bring it against a particular decision-maker or entity, they tried to come up with a theory that would allow them to ensnare major companies in these huge class actions that might cause them to be able to get a quick settlement.

SELLERS: Wal-Mart is a corporate outlier. And the policies that we were challenging have been abandoned by most companies decades ago.

TOTENBERG: Joseph Sellers, the lawyer for the women.

SELLERS: There is no large company exception to the civil rights laws. So for Wal-Mart to contend that somehow this case is too big and that therefore it can't be pursued is to try to carve out an exception for it and other large companies from coverage under the civil rights laws.

TOTENBERG: Nina Totenberg, NPR News, Washington.

Document MGED000020110329e73t00006



Wal-Mart facing huge    discrimination  lawsuit

Ottawa Citizen      
67 words
29 March 2011
Postmedia News
CWNS
English
Copyright © 2011 Canwest News Service      

Wal-Mart is facing possibly the largest sex discrimination lawsuit in American history, involving potential claims from more than a million women. The Supreme Court will rule today whether the case can go ahead as a classaction lawsuit. The retailer is accused of paying women less than men for decades and of discriminating against them when promotions were made.

Document CWNS000020120914e73t01nky



A protest sign against Wal-Mart with the U.S. Capitol in the background is seen while class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart is being argued inside the Supreme Court in Washington

LARRY DOWNING      
REUTERS      
128 words
29 March 2011
01:18 PM
Reuters Pictures
X00961
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

A protest sign against Wal-Mart with the U.S. Capitol in the background is seen while class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart is being argued inside the Supreme Court in Washington, March 29, 2011. Several U.S. Supreme Court justices sharply questioned on Tuesday whether female employees at Wal-Mart Stores Inc can proceed with the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history that seeks billions of dollars. REUTERS/Larry Downing (UNITED STATES - Tags: POLITICS CRIME LAW EMPLOYMENT BUSINESS)

RPA,MARK | RTRPIX | POL CRIM JOB | WAS314 | LSD/af | GM1E73U06JF01      

Document X009610020110329e73t000xi



Plaintiff Betty Dukes stands alone on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington

LARRY DOWNING      
REUTERS      
127 words
29 March 2011
04:36 PM
Reuters Pictures
X00961
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

Plaintiff Betty Dukes stands alone on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington, March 29, 2011. Several U.S. Supreme Court justices sharply questioned on Tuesday whether female employees at Wal-Mart Stores Inc can proceed with the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history that seeks billions of dollars. REUTERS/Larry Downing (UNITED STATES - Tags: POLITICS CRIME LAW EMPLOYMENT BUSINESS IMAGES OF THE DAY)

RPA,MARK | RTRPIX | POL CRIM JOB TPX | WAS313 | LSD/af | GM1E73U06AL01      

Document X009610020110329e73t000xh



Wal-Mart's lead attorney Theodore Boutrous and Executive Vice President for People Gisel Ruiz speak to the press on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington

LARRY DOWNING      
REUTERS      
155 words
29 March 2011
01:08 PM
Reuters Pictures
X00961
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

Wal-Mart's lead attorney Theodore Boutrous (L) and Wal-Mart's Executive Vice President for People Gisel Ruiz (R) speak to the press on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington, March 29, 2011. Several U.S. Supreme Court justices sharply questioned on Tuesday whether female employees at Wal-Mart Stores Inc can proceed with the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history that seeks billions of dollars. REUTERS/Larry Downing (UNITED STATES - Tags: POLITICS CRIME LAW EMPLOYMENT BUSINESS)

RPA,MARK | RTRPIX | POL CRIM JOB | WAS312 | LSD/af | GM1E73U063M01      

Document X009610020110329e73t000xg



Attorneys for the plaintiffs in the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart, Joseph Sellers and Brad Seligman, talk to the press following their argument presented before the Supreme Court in Washington

LARRY DOWNING      
REUTERS      
128 words
29 March 2011
01:06 PM
Reuters Pictures
X00961
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

Attorneys for the plaintiffs in the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart, Joseph Sellers (L) and Brad Seligman (R), talk to the press following their argument presented before the Supreme Court in Washington, March 29, 2011. Several U.S. Supreme Court justices sharply questioned on Tuesday whether female employees at Wal-Mart Stores Inc can proceed with the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history that seeks billions of dollars. REUTERS/Larry Downing (UNITED STATES - Tags: POLITICS CRIME LAW EMPLOYMENT BUSINESS)

RPA,MARK | RTRPIX | POL CRIM JOB | WAS311 | LSD/af | GM1E73U05Z501      

Document X009610020110329e73t000xf



Wal-Mart's lead attorney Theodore Boutrous and Executive Vice President for People Gisel Ruiz talk to the press after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington

LARRY DOWNING      
REUTERS      
146 words
29 March 2011
01:00 PM
Reuters Pictures
X00961
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

Wal-Mart's lead attorney Theodore Boutrous (L) and Wal-Mart's Executive Vice President for People Gisel Ruiz (R) talk to the press on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington, March 29, 2011. Several U.S. Supreme Court justices sharply questioned on Tuesday whether female employees at Wal-Mart Stores Inc can proceed with the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history that seeks billions of dollars. REUTERS/Larry Downing (UNITED STATES - Tags: POLITICS CRIME LAW EMPLOYMENT BUSINESS)

RPA,MARK | RTRPIX | POL CRIM JOB | WAS309 | LSD/af | GM1E73U05QU01      

Document X009610020110329e73t000xe



Plaintiffs in the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart pose on the steps of the Supreme Court after the case was argued before the court in Washington

LARRY DOWNING      
REUTERS      
133 words
29 March 2011
12:59 PM
Reuters Pictures
X00961
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

Plaintiffs in the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart pose on the steps of the Supreme Court after the case was argued before the court in Washington, March 29, 2011. From L-R are: Stephanie Odle, Betty Dukes, Christine Kwapnoski, Deborah Gunter and Edith Arana. Several U.S. Supreme Court justices sharply questioned on Tuesday whether female employees at Wal-Mart Stores Inc can proceed with the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history that seeks billions of dollars. REUTERS/Larry Downing (UNITED STATES - Tags: POLITICS CRIME LAW EMPLOYMENT BUSINESS)

RPA,MARK | RTRPIX | POL CRIM JOB | WAS310 | LSD/af | GM1E73U05O601      

Document X009610020110329e73t000xd



A Canadian protester holds a sign in front of Supreme Court while class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart is being argued inside the court in Washington

LARRY DOWNING      
REUTERS      
121 words
29 March 2011
12:34 PM
Reuters Pictures
X00961
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

Canadian protester Elizabeth Plank, from Montreal, holds a sign in front of Supreme Court while class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart is being argued inside the court in Washington, March 29, 2011. Several U.S. Supreme Court justices sharply questioned on Tuesday whether female employees at Wal-Mart Stores Inc can proceed with the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history that seeks billions of dollars. REUTERS/Larry Downing (UNITED STATES - Tags: POLITICS CRIME LAW EMPLOYMENT BUSINESS CIVIL UNREST)

RPA,MARK | RTRPIX | POL CRIM JOB | WAS308 | LSD/af | GM1E73U04GB01      

Document X009610020110329e73t000ul



Women protesters hold signs in front of the Supreme Court while class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart is being argued inside the court in Washington

LARRY DOWNING      
REUTERS      
116 words
29 March 2011
12:18 PM
Reuters Pictures
X00961
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

Women protesters hold signs in front of the Supreme Court while class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart is being argued inside the court in Washington, March 29, 2011. Several U.S. Supreme Court justices sharply questioned on Tuesday whether female employees at Wal-Mart Stores Inc can proceed with the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history that seeks billions of dollars. REUTERS/Larry Downing (UNITED STATES - Tags: POLITICS CRIME LAW EMPLOYMENT BUSINESS CIVIL UNREST)

RPA,MARK | RTRPIX | POL CRIM JOB | WAS306 | LSD/af | GM1E73U03S001      

Document X009610020110329e73t000rt



Protesters hold signs in front of the Supreme Court while class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart is being argued inside the court in Washington

LARRY DOWNING      
REUTERS      
114 words
29 March 2011
12:14 PM
Reuters Pictures
X00961
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

Protesters hold signs in front of the Supreme Court while class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart is being argued inside the court in Washington, March 29, 2011. Several U.S. Supreme Court justices sharply questioned on Tuesday whether female employees at Wal-Mart Stores Inc can proceed with the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history that seeks billions of dollars. REUTERS/Larry Downing (UNITED STATES - Tags: POLITICS CRIME LAW EMPLOYMENT BUSINESS CIVIL UNREST)

RPA,MARK | RTRPIX | POL CRIM JOB | WAS305 | LSD/af | GM1E73U03JI01      

Document X009610020110329e73t000p1



Protesters rally in front of the Supreme Court while class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart is being argued inside the court in Washington

LARRY DOWNING      
REUTERS      
113 words
29 March 2011
12:10 PM
Reuters Pictures
X00961
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

Protesters rally in front of the Supreme Court while class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart is being argued inside the court in Washington, March 29, 2011. Several U.S. Supreme Court justices sharply questioned on Tuesday whether female employees at Wal-Mart Stores Inc can proceed with the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history that seeks billions of dollars. REUTERS/Larry Downing (UNITED STATES - Tags: POLITICS CRIME LAW EMPLOYMENT BUSINESS CIVIL UNREST)

RPA,MARK | RTRPIX | POL CRIM JOB VIO | WAS304 | LSD/af | GM1E73U03CA01      

Document X009610020110329e73t000m9



Plaintiff Betty Dukes talks to the press on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington

LARRY DOWNING      
REUTERS      
126 words
29 March 2011
12:02 PM
Reuters Pictures
X00961
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

Plaintiff Betty Dukes talks to the press on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington, March 29, 2011. Several U.S. Supreme Court justices sharply questioned on Tuesday whether female employees at Wal-Mart Stores Inc can proceed with the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history that seeks billions of dollars. REUTERS/Larry Downing (UNITED STATES - Tags: POLITICS CRIME LAW EMPLOYMENT BUSINESS)

RPA,MARK | RTRPIX | POL CRIM JOB | WAS303 | LSD/af | GM1E73U030U01      

Document X009610020110329e73t000jj



Plaintiff Betty Dukes speaks to the press on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington

LARRY DOWNING      
REUTERS      
126 words
29 March 2011
11:57 AM
Reuters Pictures
X00961
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

Plaintiff Betty Dukes speaks to the press on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington, March 29, 2011. Several U.S. Supreme Court justices sharply questioned on Tuesday whether female employees at Wal-Mart Stores Inc can proceed with the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history that seeks billions of dollars. REUTERS/Larry Downing (UNITED STATES - Tags: POLITICS CRIME LAW EMPLOYMENT BUSINESS)

RPA,MARK | RTRPIX | POL CRIM JOB | WAS302 | LSD/af | GM1E73U02TD01      

Document X009610020110329e73t000ji



Plaintiff Betty Dukes smiles on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington

LARRY DOWNING      
REUTERS      
120 words
29 March 2011
11:50 AM
Reuters Pictures
X00961
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

Plaintiff Betty Dukes smiles on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court after the class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart was argued before the court in Washington, March 29, 2011. Several U.S. Supreme Court justices sharply questioned on Tuesday whether female employees at Wal-Mart Stores Inc can proceed with the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history that seeks billions of dollars. REUTERS/Larry Downing (UNITED STATES - Tags: POLITICS CRIME LAW EMPLOYMENT BUSINESS)

RPA,MARK | RTRPIX | POL CRIM JOB | WAS301 | LSD/af | GM1E73U02FN01      

Document X009610020110329e73t000jh



World
Photos of the Day; In today's pictures, Somalis receive food, the Supreme Court hears arguments in the Wal-Mart case, cherry blossoms bloom in Washington and more.

461 words
29 March 2011
03:17 PM
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
English
Copyright 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

DAY IN COURT: Betty Dukes, left, and Christine Kwapnoski, right, plaintiffs in a sex-discrimination class action against Wal-Mart spoke outside the Supreme Court Tuesday in Washington. The 2001 suit appeared unlikely to survive after Tuesday's arguments.

IN TREATMENT: A woman received treatment for burns in Herat, Afghanistan, Tuesday. Some independent human-rights watchdog groups and other organizations have been saying that gender violence has reached an alarming level in the country.

IN LINE: Displaced women waited in line for food distributed by a local nongovernmental organization near the airport in Mogadishu, Somalia, Monday. The organization feeds about 2,500 people daily.

FLOWERS IN HAND: A girl held flowers in a train station in Moscow Tuesday. One year ago, two women set off bombs on trains, killing dozens.

LEAVING IVORY COAST: Foreigners sat with their belongings Tuesday in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, as they waited for transportation to return to their home countries amid post-election violence in Ivory Coast.

LIBYA IN LONDON: Pro-Gadhafi supporters tried to destroy a flag taken from anti-Gadhafi demonstrators as world leaders discussed Libya Tuesday in London. They agreed that Libyan leader Col. Moammar Gadhafi should step down, but did not discuss arming rebels who seek to oust him.

CAPTURING NATURE: On a cold morning, photographers set up tripods to photograph cherry blossom trees in Washington Tuesday.

THROWING SHOES: Social workers, nurses and other workers threw their shoes at an effigy of Belgian Prime Minister Yves Leterme onto the steps of the stock exchange building during a protest in Brussels Tuesday. The workers complained about the absence of a new work agreement.

OLD PARTS: An employee arranged discarded computers at a newly opened electronics-waste recycling factory in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, Tuesday.

SOLAR CEMETERY: Solar panels lined the roofs of mausoleums in a cemetery near Barcelona Monday.

HANGING ON: A party supporter held onto a bus adorned with a poster of Gov. Babatunde Fashola during a campaign rally for his re-election in Yaba district in Lagos, Nigeria, Tuesday.

DRILLING: Security forces performed drills in the courtyard of a new U.N.-funded prison in Hargeisa, Somalia, Tuesday. Officials said the prison is not yet accepting pirates arrested or detained by foreign powers.

IN PROTEST: Antigovernment protesters demanded the resignation of President Ali Abdullah Saleh in San'a,Yemen, Tuesday.

WRAPPED IN RED: A protester wrapped in an Albanian flag protested Tuesday in Pristina, Kosovo, in support of former rebels charged by a European Union prosecutor of war crimes during the Kosovo War. A former government minister is among 11 war crimes suspects.

Document WSJO000020110329e73t0096l



Editorial-Opinion
Wal-Mart justices?

432 words
29 March 2011
The Washington Post
WP
FINAL
A20
English
Copyright 2011, The Washington Post Co. All Rights Reserved      

Technically, the litigants in the case scheduled for argument before the Supreme Court on Tuesday are Wal-Mart Stores and some 1 million current and former female employees who allege in a class action that they have been discriminated against. But all eyes will be on the justices themselves.

Will the "conservatives" on the court reflexively side with big corporate interests, as some liberal activists fear? Or, as some conservatives worry, will the "liberals" on the court get their way and craft a decision that gives the "little guy" a boost against the corporate behemoth?

It's easy in cases such as this one to try to caricature justices as political players in search of a desired result. Easy, but wrong, as a recent spate of decisions shows.

Within the past few weeks, the Supreme Court, with conservative justices in agreement, rendered decisions that caused corporate America to groan. In one case, the justices sided with an employee who claimed his employer retaliated against him after he made a complaint. In another, they unanimously gave a green light to investors who sued a drugmaker accused of withholding information about serious side effects linked to one of its products. And the court, in a decision written by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., an appointee of George W. Bush, rebuffed AT&T's argument that it was entitled to "personal privacy" in order to shield certain information from public view. The chief justice, with tongue firmly planted in cheek, wrote that the court hoped "AT&T would not take it personally."

An analysis by Supreme Court advocate Thomas Goldstein on SCOTUSblog also chips away at the notion that justices rule in lockstep with their political preferences and are constantly at each other's throats. In the 2010 essay "Everything you read about the Supreme Court is wrong," Mr. Goldstein notes that 5-to-4 splits were rendered in less than 20 percent of the cases during the court's 2009 term - the most recent term for which full statistics are available. During the '09 term, "roughly half the decisions were nine to zero."

Justices are not devoid of points of view, and their "judicial philosophies" help steer them to certain results. There will be cases in which the justices appear to split along ideological lines, and the Wal-Mart case may very well be one of them. Debate and disagreement over the merits of a decision are understandable; not so painting justices as mere political hacks camouflaged in judicial robes.

http://www.washingtonpost.com

WP201103292ed-court29      

Document WP00000020110329e73t00002

Supreme Court hears arguments in bias suit against Wal-Mart

442 words
29 March 2011
EFE News Service
WEFE
English
(c) Copyright 2011.    EFE News Service.    All rights reserved.      

Washington, Mar 29 (EFE).- Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world's biggest retailer, on Tuesday asked the U.S. Supreme Court to block a class-action suit by female employees who say the company discriminates against them.

The high court is not weighing the merits of the case, but rather whether or not the matter can proceed as a class-action suit on behalf of some 500,000 current and former Wal-Mart employees.

While the arguments were being heard in the high court, outside hundreds of women demonstrated to show their support for the class-action suit about which the nine justices have already expressed doubts with regard to whether or not the case can move forward.

"Our only chance is in a collective lawsuit," said Christine Kwapnoski, an assistant manager at an outlet of Wal-Mart owned by Sam's Club, who noted that the women are facing off against a gigantic corporation.

She recalled how a male manager once told her to "doll up" if she was interested in promotion.

The result of the case, which if it moves forward could lead to millions of dollars in compensation for the plaintiffs, will have ramifications far beyond Wal-Mart since it will clearly impact the policies of companies that discriminate against their employees by sex, race and other characteristics.

The high court's decision will also affect other pending cases like the suit by more than 700 women against the Costco Wholesale Corp. chain.

Wal-Mart, with annual sales of $400 billion and profits of more than $15 billion over the past 12 months, has 3,400 stores in the United States and 170 different categories of employees.

The case was launched on June 8, 2001, when Betty Dukes, a greeter at a Wal-Mart in Pittsburg, California, sued the company claiming that because she was a black woman the firm had discriminated against her both in terms of her pay and her chances for promotion.

Eleven days after Dukes presented her complaint five other women joined it and then the suit transformed itself into a case of sex discrimination throughout the company.

In June 2001, federal Appeals Court Judge Martin Jenkins approved the class-action suit.

That ruling defined the class of potential plaintiffs as "all women employed in any Wal-Mart store in the United States from December 1998 on."

Wal-Mart says there is no basis for a collective lawsuit because the hundreds of thousands of women involved "had different jobs, in different stores, in different states and under the supervision of different managers." EFE

jab/bp 

Document WEFE000020110329e73t0008f

 Justice Voices Skepticism Over Suit Against Wal-Mart
WSJ Blogs, 12:32 PM, 29 March 2011, 411 words, By Ashby Jones, (English)
Well, this could be rather anti-climactic.If court-side reporters at the WSJ, Bloomberg, Reuters, and the AP are to be believed (and we've no reason to doubt them), the plaintiffs in the huge discrimination case  aimed at Wal-Mart have ...

US Supreme Court Hears Massive Wal Mart    Discrimination  Case

701 words
29 March 2011
Voice of America Press Releases and Documents
VOA
English
CY Copyright (c) 2011 Federal    Information & News Dispatch, Inc.      

VOA English Service

The U.S. Supreme Court heard arguments Tuesday in a massive gender discrimination case, involving retail giant Wal Mart, that could have a major impact on businesses and rights of employees across the United States.

The Supreme Court appeared skeptical as they heard oral arguments on a case determining whether female employees of Wal Mart can together pursue allegations that managers discriminated against them on pay and promotions.

The highest U.S. court will decide whether 1.5 million women can contest their case in a class action lawsuit (a suit filed on behalf of a large, collective group) against the world's largest retailer. The ruling could set a new precedent for labor discrimination cases in the United States. And if the court allows the case to go forward, billions of dollars in damages are at stake.

The Supreme Court indicated they had problems with the lower court's ruling against the company. Justice Anthony Kennedy, a key vote on the nation's highest court, questioned what the unlawful policy was. Other justices expressed concern about whether a case of this size would be fair to Wal Mart.

The company's attorney, Theodore Boutrous, argued the female employees do not have enough in common to bring a single case. Outside the Supreme Court, he told reporters he was pleased with the issues the court focused on.

"The other thing you saw today, the justices were focused on: the terrible due process problems with the theory that the plaintiffs have used here. Individual women would not get to tell their stories. Wal Mart would not be able to put on its defenses," he said.

Joseph Sellers, the lawyer representing the women, said his clients were exposed to company-wide discrimination around the country and do not make enough to individually bring this case to court. "This case offers Wal Mart as well as our clients a economical, efficient way to challenge a common practice across the stores, rather than litigating all these cases across the country," he said.

Betty Dukes, the lead plaintiff on the case, filed the suit with five others after seeing patterns of discrimination as a female employee. "Since we have filed our lawsuits in 2001, I have heard from numerous of women basically the same story as mine of disparity in treatment and lack of promotion and in lack of pay," she said.

But Wal Mart's executive vice president of human resources, Gisel Ruiz, said she is proof the company has a long history of promoting and advancing women. "I joined the company in 1992 as a management trainee, in Madera, California, and in less than four years I was promoted to store manager. I have had a very positive experience at Wal Mart like thousands of other women and not being able to opt out of the case is wrong," she said.

Groups of supporters of the women gathered in front of the Supreme Court early Tuesday as the oral arguments went on inside.

The women have gained the support of the National Women's Law Center and 18 other organizations. Terry O'Neill, president of the National Organization for Women, was among the demonstrators. "The case is actually about whether the women of Wal Mart have the right to form a class and pursue their class action, but it can have implications on whether anyone can form a class to get redress from these huge, extremely well-funded corporate lawbreakers," she said.

Wal Mart has found support from companies such as General Electric, Intel, Microsoft and Bank of America.

Hans Bader a senior attorney at the Competitive Enterprise Institute said this case will make companies more vulnerable to facing massive class action lawsuits.

"It just allows a kind of weak national class action to be brought, even though the employees don't have a lot in common, and on the basis of very weak evidence. If you put those two together, you could bring a national class action, like this, against basically against any large company in America," he said.

The Supreme Court could decide the case by the end of June.

Document VOA0000020110330e73t00004



Reuters World News Highlights at 1930 IST March 29

407 words
29 March 2011
UNI (United News of India)
UNNIND
English
Copyright 2011. United News Of India      

Kochi, March. 29 -- TRIPOLI - Muammar Gaddafi's better armed and organised troops reversed the westward charge of Libyan rebels as world powers gathered in London today to plot the country's future without the ''brother leader''. - - - - TOKYO - Plutonium found in soil at the Fukushima nuclear complex heightened alarm today over Japan's battle to contain the world's worst atomic crisis in 25 years, as pressure mounted on the prime minister to widen an evacuation zone around the plant. - - - - DAMASCUS - Tens of thousands of Syrians held pro-government rallies today as President Bashar al-Assad was expected to address the nation after two weeks of pro-democracy protests in which at least 60 people have died. - - - - SANAA - Yemeni protesters demanding the ouster of President Ali Abdullah Saleh said today they would insist he leave power soon, blaming him for violence that has raised US fears of chaos that could benefit militants.

 - - - - ABIDJAN - Forces loyal to Ivory Coast presidential claimant Alassane Ouattara seized two towns in the heart of the western cocoa belt overnight, in an offensive that may enable them to move towards a major port. - - - - WASHINGTON - Wal-Mart Stores Inc will argue today that the US Supreme Court should halt the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history by female employees who seek billions of dollars. - - - - BEIJING - A lack of cohesion on global monetary reform will be on display this week when the Group of 20 wealthy and developing economies meets in China for a seminar, an event that was supposed to have been a starting point for Sino-French efforts to design a new global currency order. - - - - MOSCOW - Russia's investment climate is already so bad that even a row between BP and its shareholders at Anglo-Russian TNK-BP will not discourage seasoned investors, a senior Kremlin aide said today. - - - - LISBON - The Bank of Portugal warned today of the need for substantial new austerity measures to ensure the debt-laden country meets budget goals, set to deepen an expected economic contraction. - - - - ABUJA - Nigeria's electoral commission has tightened voting procedures for general elections which begin on Saturday in a bid to stamp out the widespread ballot-stuffing and fraud which have marred previous polls.Published by HT Syndication with permission from publication.getName().

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com      

Document UNNIND0020110329e73t000kd

Wal-Mart (WMT) Issues Statment Following Supreme Court Oral Argument in Dukes Litigation

116 words
29 March 2011
StreetInsider.com
STINS
English
Copyright 2011 StreetInsider.com.    All Rights Reserved.      

Wal-Mart (NYSE: WMT) issued the following statement following the U.S. Supreme Court oral argument in Betty Dukes litigation.

From EVP of People, Gisel Ruiz:

"We were pleased to be able to show the Court that Walmart had a strong non-discrimination policy in place well before the lawsuit was filed, and to illustrate the other flaws in the plaintiffs' theories.

"Walmart is working hard every day to ensure more women are represented in our management ranks. We continue to have strong anti-discrimination policies in place, a strong record of advancement of women and we are always looking to be better."

Document STINS00020110329e73t0009t

Is Wal-Mart lawsuit too big?

Joan Biskupic      
1,067 words
29 March 2011
Gannett News Service
GNS
English
© 2011 Gannett News Service. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.      

By Joan Biskupic

WASHINGTON -- As the Supreme Court heard arguments Tuesday over the largest job-bias class-action lawsuit in history, key justices suggested they might side with Wal-Mart rather than with the women who allege the company discriminated against them.

Justice Anthony Kennedy pressed lawyer Joseph Sellers, who represented the women suing Wal-Mart, on how potentially millions of employees could be swept into a single class-action case against the giant retailer.

"Why is there commonality" among the claims and relief sought? Kennedy asked. He said "a flaw in your case" arises from the fact that the women are making different assertions about back pay owed.

Separately, Chief Justice John Roberts suggested that a great deal of evidence showing manager bias at a company might be required before a class-action lawsuit can be filed. "I assume with

The arguments played out before a packed courtroom. Spectators had begun lining up outside before midnight for seats in the public section of the red-velvet-and-white-marble courtroom. Lawyers filled the special bar section. Four of the six named women who brought the suit, including Betty Dukes and Christine Kwapnoski, were present. So were Wal-Mart corporate officials, including Gisel Ruiz, an executive vice president who oversees human resources.

The women who claim the nation's largest private company denied them promotions and higher pay are seeking to represent most women who have worked at Wal-Mart Stores since 1998. Lower-court judges estimated the class at 500,000 women; Wal-Mart says it could be as large as 1.5 million.

The women say widespread discrimination stems from a highly centralized corporate culture rife with stereotypes demeaning of women. Among the claims is that women were told to "doll up" and wear more makeup, and that business meetings were occasionally held at Hooters restaurant, where waitresses wear skimpy clothing.

The question for the nine justices Tuesday was not whether Wal- Mart discriminated but whether lower U.S. courts properly allowed the women to go forward as a class action. The answer has consequences for whether the women who say they were wronged can get into court and whether Wal-Mart would have to defend itself against a potential billion-dollar judgment.

Stakes high for business

Class actions enable one or more people to sue as representatives of a large group of people with similar interests. For workers who have little ability to come forward on their own, such lawsuits provide a way to challenge a big company. Yet corporations such as Wal-Mart say class actions must be limited by rules governing who can join together.

Appealing a lower-court decision, Wal-Mart says the class of women lacks a common set of grievances.

Wal-Mart lawyer Theodore Boutrous told the justices the group falls short of the required "cohesion," and he stressed that "the company has a very strong policy against discrimination and in favor of diversity."

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, among the justices voicing more skepticism for Wal-Mart's position, asked whether a company has a responsibility to act if it "gets reports month after month showing that women are disproportionately passed over for promotion, and there is a pay gap between men and women doing the same job." (Ginsburg gained national attention early in her legal career for representing victims of sex discrimination and helping to develop a strategy that led to enhanced constitutional protection against such bias.)

"Yes," Boutrous said, "there is an obligation for a company to do its best to ensure there are not wage gaps and discrimination. But here, for example, if one looks at the aggregated statistics that the plaintiffs have pointed to, it does not show that there were gender gaps at the stores among comparable people."

Lawsuit says pay lagged

In the women's lawsuit dating to 2001, they contend female employees' pay lagged behind that of men in every major job in each of the company's 41 regions. While women made up more than 80% of hourly supervisors, the women say, they held only one-third of store management jobs.

Boutrous has disputed those statistics, and he stressed Tuesday that the women suing lack legal grounds to connect workers at thousands of stores, with hundreds of managers, in one gigantic claim.

Justice Elena Kagan, who also pressed Boutrous, suggested the women had identified a "common policy

"All that the plaintiffs have to demonstrate and, especially at this stage in the proceedings," she said, "is that there is a practice, a policy of subjectivity, that on the whole results in discrimination against women," Kagan said.

During his time at the lectern, Sellers argued for the women, "Wal-Mart provided to its managers unchecked discretion

Kennedy, a frequent key vote on the court, responded skeptically, saying, "No.1, you said this is a culture where

Justices Antonin Scalia and Samuel Alito also pressed Sellers on that point.

Sellers responded that managers have broad discretion, yet the overall Wal-Mart corporate culture stereotypes women.

After the hearing, Dukes, who joined Wal-Mart in 1994 and now works as a greeter at a store in Pittsburg, Calif., said she was "gratified by the chance to be at the Supreme Court, and no matter what the justices decide, we feel we have made a difference. It is my hope that our daughters

Ruiz of Wal-Mart said she thought the company was able to show the justices it had "a strong non-discrimination policy

Lawyers who have represented employees and management in class- action cases said the justices' questions appeared to favor Wal- Mart.

David Sanford, a Washington, D.C., lawyer, represented women who won a $250 million punitive damages award from the drug company Novartis last year.

He said the Wal-Mart case offers the court a chance "to reaffirm the rights of women in the workplace. Unfortunately, from the questions of some of the justices, the Supreme Court may roll back those rights."

Mark Batten, a Boston lawyer who has represented management in class actions, said, "The court's questions suggest that an outright affirmance of the lower court is unlikely, but it is difficult to assess how broad the court's opinion will be."

A decision in Wal-Mart v. Dukes is likely by the end of June, when the justices usually recess.

Document GNS0000020110503e73t001g4

Is Wal-Mart lawsuit too big?

Joan Biskupic      
1,080 words
29 March 2011
Gannett News Service
GNS
English
© 2011 Gannett News Service. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.      

By Joan Biskupic

WASHINGTON -- As the Supreme Court heard arguments Tuesday over the largest job-bias class-action lawsuit in history, key justices suggested they might side with Wal-Mart rather than with the women who allege the company discriminated against them.

Justice Anthony Kennedy pressed lawyer Joseph Sellers, who represented the women suing Wal-Mart, on how potentially millions of employees could be swept into a single class-action case against the giant retailer.

"Why is there commonality" among the claims and relief sought? Kennedy asked. He said "a flaw in your case" arises from the fact that the women are making different assertions about back pay owed.

Separately, Chief Justice John Roberts suggested that a great deal of evidence showing manager bias at a company might be required before a class-action lawsuit can be filed. "I assume with

The arguments played out before a packed courtroom. Spectators had begun lining up outside before midnight for seats in the public section of the red-velvet-and-white-marble courtroom. Lawyers filled the special bar section. Four of the six named women who brought the suit, including Betty Dukes and Christine Kwapnoski, were present. So were Wal-Mart corporate officials, including Gisel Ruiz, an executive vice president who oversees human resources.

The women who claim the nation's largest private company denied them promotions and higher pay are seeking to represent most women who have worked at Wal-Mart Stores since 1998. Lower-court judges estimated the class at 500,000 women; Wal-Mart says it could be as large as 1.5 million.

The women say widespread discrimination stems from a highly centralized corporate culture rife with stereotypes demeaning of women. Among the claims is that women were told to "doll up" and wear more makeup, and that business meetings were occasionally held at Hooters restaurant, where waitresses wear skimpy clothing.

The question for the nine justices Tuesday was not whether Wal- Mart discriminated but whether lower U.S. courts properly allowed the women to go forward as a class action. The answer has consequences for whether the women who say they were wronged can get into court and whether Wal-Mart would have to defend itself against a potential billion-dollar judgment.

Stakes high for business

Class actions enable one or more people to sue as representatives of a large group of people with similar interests. For workers who have little ability to come forward on their own, such lawsuits provide a way to challenge a big company. Yet corporations such as Wal-Mart say class actions must be limited by rules governing who can join together.

Appealing a lower-court decision, Wal-Mart says the class of women lacks a common set of grievances.

Wal-Mart lawyer Theodore Boutrous told the justices the group falls short of the required "cohesion," and he stressed that "the company has a very strong policy against discrimination and in favor of diversity."

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, among the justices voicing more skepticism for Wal-Mart's position, asked whether a company has a responsibility to act if it "gets reports month after month showing that women are disproportionately passed over for promotion, and there is a pay gap between men and women doing the same job." (Ginsburg gained national attention early in her legal career for representing victims of sex discrimination and helping to develop a strategy that led to enhanced constitutional protection against such bias.)

"Yes," Boutrous said, "there is an obligation for a company to do its best to ensure there are not wage gaps and discrimination. But here, for example, if one looks at the aggregated statistics that the plaintiffs have pointed to, it does not show that there were gender gaps at the stores among comparable people."

Lawsuit says pay lagged"</cci:subhead>

In the women's lawsuit dating to 2001, they contend female employees' pay lagged behind that of men in every major job in each of the company's 41 regions. While women made up more than 80% of hourly supervisors, the women say, they held only one-third of store management jobs.

Boutrous has disputed those statistics, and he stressed Tuesday that the women suing lack legal grounds to connect workers at thousands of stores, with hundreds of managers, in one gigantic claim.

Justice Elena Kagan, who also pressed Boutrous, suggested the women had identified a "common policy

"All that the plaintiffs have to demonstrate and, especially at this stage in the proceedings," she said, "is that there is a practice, a policy of subjectivity, that on the whole results in discrimination against women," Kagan said.

During his time at the lectern, Sellers argued for the women, "Wal-Mart provided to its managers unchecked discretion

Kennedy, a frequent key vote on the court, responded skeptically, saying, "No.1, you said this is a culture where

Justices Antonin Scalia and Samuel Alito also pressed Sellers on that point.

Sellers responded that managers have broad discretion, yet the overall Wal-Mart corporate culture stereotypes women.

After the hearing, Dukes, who joined Wal-Mart in 1994 and now works as a greeter at a store in Pittsburg, Calif., said she was "gratified by the chance to be at the Supreme Court, and no matter what the justices decide, we feel we have made a difference. It is my hope that our daughters

Ruiz of Wal-Mart said she thought the company was able to show the justices it had "a strong non-discrimination policy

Lawyers who have represented employees and management in class- action cases said the justices' questions appeared to favor Wal- Mart.

David Sanford, a Washington, D.C., lawyer, represented women who won a $250 million punitive damages award from the drug company Novartis last year.

He said the Wal-Mart case offers the court a chance "to reaffirm the rights of women in the workplace. Unfortunately, from the questions of some of the justices, the Supreme Court may roll back those rights."

Mark Batten, a Boston lawyer who has represented management in class actions, said, "The court's questions suggest that an outright affirmance of the lower court is unlikely, but it is difficult to assess how broad the court's opinion will be."

A decision in Wal-Mart v. Dukes is likely by the end of June, when the justices usually recess.

----

Copyright 2011, USA TODAY International. Dist. by Tribune Media Services International.

Document GNS0000020110503e73t001dk



Walmart takes    discrimination  case to top court

By Barney Jopson in New York      
619 words
29 March 2011
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
English
Copyright 2011 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.      

Walmart, the US discount retailer, is to defend itself at the Supreme Court in the world's largest sex discrimination case, which has the potential to transform the future course of legal disputes between big business and workers in the US.

In a class-action lawsuit that has taken a decade to reach the court, the retailer is accused of paying women in the US less than men for the same work and of passing them over for promotions.

The court on Tuesday will hear arguments on whether the case can go forward as a class-action lawsuit, in which a small number of women want to represent a larger group of current and former employees estimated to number up to 1.5m.

The Supreme Court will rule on Walmart's claim that the class action is too broadly constituted to be meaningful rather than on the merits of the case.

Lawyers for the plaintiffs say that a victory for them on this technical point would help to give US workers better legal protection against discrimination. Walmart and its allies say that if it loses, corporate America will be hobbled by a wave of new class-action lawsuits.

Walmart's opponents say the experiences of the plaintiffs, led by a 61-year-old store "greeter" named Betty Dukes who still works for the company in California, reflect a wider culture of discrimination.

Walmart, the world's biggest company by sales, tends to attract admiration and scorn in equal measure. The case is a stark example of how its size has thrust it into the centre of highly politicised disputes in the US and beyond.

Following 30 minutes of arguments from both sides on Tuesday, the Supreme Court is expected to issue a ruling by July.

David Tovar, a Walmart spokesman, said Ms Dukes and her fellow plaintiffs could not be representative of more than a million women and stressed that Walmart has had anti-discrimination policies in place for many years.

"We think there are thousands of women who have had tremendously positive experiences working at Walmart," he said.

Joseph Sellers, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said: "Walmart has repeatedly argued that this case is too big to be adjudicated properly. I worry that they are seeking a standard that would make companies too big to be accountable."

Mr Sellers has supplemented the evidence of the original six plaintiffs with testimony from other Walmart employees and a salary analysis that he says shows women are underpaid. Walmart says the extra evidence is flawed.

Several big companies have rallied to Walmart's side, including Intel and Microsoft, the technology groups, and Altria, the tobacco company.

In a legal brief filed in support of Walmart, the US Chamber of Commerce said last year that if the case is allowed to go ahead, it would "likely provoke an avalanche of new class-action litigation" that would engulf all companies in the US.

"Anyone with a claim that is 'reasonably coextensive' with those of other potential plaintiffs - be it a personal-injury, consumer-fraud, or medical-monitoring claim - would now have a viable class action," it said.

Walmart's opponents reject the suggestion that a defeat for the retailer would dramatically shift the balance of power between big business and potential litigants. Instead, they say, it is a Walmart victory that would upend established legal tradition.

Marcia Greenberger, who is supporting the plaintiffs as co-president of the National Women's Law Center, said: "If the plaintiffs did not prevail and the court adopted a new principle, it could end up shielding discrimination and allowing it remain unchecked and unremedied."

Document FTCOM00020110328e73t0053d



Wal-Mart releases statement regarding Dukes Case

90 words
29 March 2011
Theflyonthewall.com
FLYWAL
English
(c) 2011. Theflyonthewall.com.    All Rights Reserved.      

Company Executive VP Gisel Ruiz said, "We were pleased to be able to show the Court that Walmart had a strong non-discrimination policy in place well before the lawsuit was filed, and to illustrate the other flaws in the plaintiffs' theories. Walmart is working hard every day to ensure more women are represented in our management ranks. We continue to have strong anti-discrimination policies in place, a strong record of advancement of women and we are always looking to be better."

Document FLYWAL0020110329e73t006bt



On the Fly: Periodicals Wrap-Up

141 words
29 March 2011
Theflyonthewall.com
FLYWAL
English
(c) 2011. Theflyonthewall.com.    All Rights Reserved.    

WALL STREET JOURNAL: Shipments of Lenovo's (LNVGY) new LePad tablet could be affected by tight supply of memory chips following Japan's earthquake and tsunami, the Wall Street Journal reports...BLOOMBERG: Traders are betting that Infor and Golden Gate Capital's $1.8B takeover for Lawson Software (LWSN) will be topped by a higher offer, likely from Oracle (ORCL), Bloomberg reports...REUTERS: Rio Tinto (RIO) said it would go ahead with its $4B takeover offer for Riversdale Mining even if it ends up with a minority stake, Reuters reports...FINANCIAL TIMES: Wal-Mart (WMT) is set to defend itself at the Supreme Court in the world's largest sex discrimination case, which has the potential to transform the future course of legal disputes between big 

business and U.S. workers. the Financial Times reports.

Document FLYWAL0020110329e73t0011e



Wal-Mart's    discrimination  case goes to Supreme Court, FT reports

56 words
29 March 2011
Theflyonthewall.com
FLYWAL
English
(c) 2011. Theflyonthewall.com.    All Rights Reserved.      

Wal-Mart (WMT) is set to defend itself at the Supreme Court in the world's largest sex discrimination case, which the Financial Times says has the potential to transform the future course of legal disputes between big business and U.S. workers.

Reference Link

Document FLYWAL0020110329e73t000rv

News; International
Supreme Court Will Hear Wal-Mart Sex    Discrimination  Suit; If Medicare Age Raised, Costs Shift from Government to Employers; New Mortgage Rules would Require 20 Percent Down Payment on Home; Reports: Gadhafi's Inner Circle Starting to Crumble; Report: Syrian Government to Resign, New Cabinet to Be Named; Japan on "Maximum" Alert in Response to Nuclear Crisis; Coast Guard Says White House Restricted Info about Oil Spill; Supreme Court Will Hear Wal-Mart Sex    Discrimination  Suit; NATO Reportedly Delays Takeover of Libya Mission; Reports: Al Gadhafi's Inner Circle Starting to Crumble; Japan on "Maximum" Alert in Response to Nuclear Crisis; General Electric Buying 90 Percent of Converteam for $3.2B; Obama's Speech; Libyan Fighting Continues; Japan's Nuclear Plant Situation; Juan Williams Interview Replay; Reaction To Obama's Speech

Connell McShane, Shibani Joshi, Mike Emanuel, Rich Edson, Rick    Leventhal, Mike Tuggle, Maria Molina, Don Imus, Charles Payne      
26,374 words
29 March 2011
Fox Business Network: Imus in the Morning
FBNIM
English
© 2011 Fox News Network, LLC. All Rights Reserved      

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SHIBANI JOSHI, ANCHOR (voice-over): In an address to the nation last night, President Obama strongly defended his decision to bomb targets in Libya saying failure to act would have led to the slaughter of thousands of Libyan civilians.

The president also reiterated that while Moammar Gadhafi must go, the Libyan leader is not being targeted in the attacks, but still there are a number of unanswered questions this morning as the fighting between Gadhafi forces and the rebels continue to intensify.

Meanwhile in Japan, the news just keeps getting worse at the troubled nuclear power plant. Traces of plutonium, one of the world's most dangerous substances has turned up in the soil around the facility.

And radioactive water continues to leak from at least two of the six reactors. Japanese officials are now looking to expanding exclusion zones, which could mean the immediate evacuation of an additional 130,000 people in what is already one of the worst nuclear disasters in history.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CONNELL MCSHANE, ANCHOR: All right, good morning, everybody, with Shibani Joshi. I'm Connell McShane. Welcome to the IMUS IN THE MORNING program.

And as Shibani told you there's a lot going on this morning and you know, we have the president's speech in the books so we'll have complete analysis of that. Dr. Walid Phares is coming up. He'll join us live a little bit later on this hour.

Fox News analyst, of all things Middle East to Major Garrett from the National Journal is coming on in this hour as well and a little bit later on our good friends Charles Payne and Chris Cotter.

So it will be the analysis and reaction, market implications of the president's speech today amidst the oil price.

JOSHI: Absolutely. You know, Wall Street continues to pay attention to what the president said last night and also continuing to watch the tensions in Libya as well as Japan and what they are doing to oil prices, investors, obviously paying more attention to Japan and decreased demand.

We have oil prices down but stocks, looking pretty good this morning, off to a slightly positive start. You know, yesterday was the lightest trading day of the year for both stocks as well as oil.

You're seeing a lot of investors kind of waffle about whether or not they want to buy on the dips that we are seeing in the market.

MCSHANE: You are right. Very, very light in volume terms, we'll keep on top of that. In terms of top stories for you today, well, the Supreme Court will take on a huge sex discrimination lawsuit against Wal-Mart.

The court will then decide if it can proceed as a class action and if it can, this case goes back to a lower court, maybe as many as 1.5 million female employees would be plaintiffs.

They claim Wal-Mart favors men over women in pay and promotion so the Supreme Court's decision likely to take a few months, interesting case to watch there.

The government meantime would save billions of dollars if the eligibility age for Medicare ends up going up to 67. According to a new study out from the Kaiser Family Foundation, those costs would shift to others including businesses.

Businesses would pay roughly $4.5 billion more for health insurance because older workers would stay on the job, longer than they ordinarily would.

And financial regulators will propose new mortgage rules, which they say will prevent another financial crisis. Critics though say the rules will make it more expensive to buy a house and will end up hurting what is and all ready fragile housing market.

The rules would require buyers to put down at least 20 percent on the new home and meet some very strict income requirements to qualify for a loan.

JOSHI: All right, of course, our top story this morning, we'll be paying attention to, President Obama's address to the nation in which he defended U.S. military action in Libya.

Our Rich Edson is standing by in our D.C. Bureau with more on what the president had to say last night. Rich, he stopped short of outlining a plan, a lot of criticism about that?

RICH EDSON, FOX BUSINESS: He did and he caught a lot of criticism afterwards. President Obama did say he will never hesitate to use our military swiftly, decisively, unilaterally when necessary, to defend our people, our homeland and allies and our core interests.

And he says an imminent massacre in Libya met those conditions because, if our nation had failed to intervene, he says Libyan refugees would have destabilized the region.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: We knew that if we waited one more day, Benghazi, a city nearly the size of Charlotte, would suffer a massacre that would have reverberated across the region and stained the conscience of the world. It was not in our national interest to let that happen. I refused to let that happen.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

EDSON: The president did not call this action a war. He did not offer a firm financial or time commitment to Libya, two conditions Republicans have demanded. House Speaker John Boehner says nine days into this military intervention Americans still have no answer to the fundamental question, what does success in Libya look like?

Meanwhile, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is meeting in London with coalition representatives. A senior administration official says the U.S. plans to send the liaison with the Libyan opposition to Benghazi soon to continue talks. Shibani and Connell, back to you.

JOSHI: All right, thanks, Rich. This is a story we're going to continue to dissect throughout the day today.

Turning now to news abroad, Syria's government will resign today according to a top official there, and a new cabinet will be named within the next 24 hours.

Meanwhile, supporters of the President Assad pouring into Damascus today. The main square has blocked off by police after days of anti-Assad protests there. There have also been reports of Syrian forces opening fire on those protesters.

And Japan is on maximum alert to control the nuclear crisis. The prime minister calling the situation the worst problem the country has faced since World War II. But many are criticizing him for handling -- how he handled this disaster and pushing him to expand the evacuation zone around the nuclear plant.

Meanwhile, plutonium has been discovered in the soil around the Fukushima plant. It was found at low risk levels in some tests at the facility, but plutonium is highly carcinogenic and one of the most dangerous substances on the planet according to scientific experts.

And the Coast Guard blasting the White House's handling of the Gulf oil spill last year. A new report says the Obama administration did not have an effective communication system and they often severely restricted the release of timely and accurate information according to that report.

The coast guard says officials on the ground were not even allowed to give interviews and could not even release pictures without approval.

MCSHANE: All right, we continue here, just ahead of Jake Tapper of ABC News coming up with Imus. Let's get a check of the weather this morning. Maria Molina in the Fox Business Weather Center. Good morning, Maria.

MARIA MOLINA, FOX WEATHER CENTER: Hi. Good morning, Connell. We do have one storm system starting to develop across the center of the country. It does have some snow associated with it. You see a batch of snow currently moving through the state of Iowa and also northern Illinois.

And there is light snow associated with this, you're going to see some light accumulation across local roadways and also some snow starting to move out of Colorado and that will enter western parts of Kansas and also accumulate as well throughout this morning and even some freezing fog possible out there.

Otherwise, more massive storm system starting to push into the Pacific Northwest. We already have some rain from Seattle down into Portland and even parts of Northern California and there's also an avalanche danger across the Washington cascades, please keep that in mind. There was already one fatality reported, Sunday afternoon, through Steven's pass due to a human induced avalanche. This is a huge concern and something to keep an eye out for.

Otherwise, across the south currently not a lot going on, but this afternoon as we get some day time heating you're going to see some thunderstorms firing up across eastern Texas, Louisiana and southern parts of Mississippi. And these storms will bring in a concern for some severe weather with large hail, strong winds and isolated tornadoes possible. Guys --

MCSHANE: All right, Maria Molina here with us this morning and coming up, we'll have Walid Phares, Fox News analyst and also Major Garrett of the National Journal to talk about the president's speech last night and the situation is Libya, as the IMUS IN THE MORNING program continues right now here on Fox Business.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

DON IMUS, HOST: Please welcome now, the White House correspondent for ABC News, Jake Tapper. Good morning, Mr. Tapper.

JAKE TAPPER, ABC NEWS (via telephone): Mr. Imus, how are you, sir?

IMUS: I'm fine, how are you?

TAPPER: Good.

IMUS: Did you travel with the president to South America?

TAPPER: I did not. There was a concern that too much was going on, and to have me in the air when they need to do possible special reports would not be wise.

IMUS: You think the administration would have thought the same thing, so much is going on, if Jake Tapper will not go to South America maybe we shouldn't send the president, either.

TAPPER: Well, he can do a secure video or phone teleconference from air force one. ABC News cannot go to me on the press charter while in the air, flying to Chile.

IMUS: So Bernard was watching the ABC Evening News with Diane Sawyer and she's still on it.

TAPPER: Yes.

IMUS: OK, and you guys devoted 12 minutes to the death of, well, this fat drug addled home wrecker who probably killed Michael Jackson, Elizabeth Taylor?

TAPPER: I don't think that is how we described her. I think your timing is probably correct.

IMUS: What did you make of that?

TAPPER: I'm not the programmer, but I can tell you, it is clear that Elizabeth Taylor was very significant culturally to a large percentage of the people who watch evening news programs.

IMUS: Huge. I mean, I can remember, she was -- she transcended movies, Hollywood, part of the fabric of the culture.

TAPPER: So, I mean, I think culturally, you know, you always take a risk when you make a decision like that. But she was a fairly significant person for decades. Culturally in this country and that was the decision. Again, I don't make those decisions but, it wasn't one I had an issue with.

IMUS: It is inappropriate for me to ask you to make a judgment on a broadcast anyway, I apologize for that. I sometimes I try to deal with guests, to trick them into saying stuff or make them uncomfortable and I'm not doing that with you.

TAPPER: It's OK. You know, I remember a few years ago when Britney Spears opened a restaurant in New York. That was a front page "New York Times" story and I remember there was a lot of debate about that.

I'm not a huge snob about that sort of thing, personally because I do think culture and pop culture is an important part of our lives and news shouldn't be that stuffy. That said, I did think the media in general went way overboard on, for instance, Charlie Sheen.

I think that there's a distinction between something that is important culturally and something that is a train wreck culturally. And the media doesn't always navigate that well.

IMUS: We couldn't get enough of Charlie Sheen, by the way.

TAPPER: Well, sure, for you guys.

IMUS: You are saying we're not serious journalists, is that what you're saying?

TAPPER: No, but I understand when you have hours to talk about something that Charlie Sheen is certainly -- look, you were doing what everybody throughout the world was doing. What is going on with that guy?

IMUS: Talking with Jake Tapper, White House correspondent for ABC News. So, Howard Kurtz, who writes for the "Daily Beast" and unfortunately, appears on CNN and we hate them and hate everybody there and watching.

But he did a piece and he was asking about what -- questioning the skepticism on the part of the media was or however you're supposed to say it, about Libya. And it's almost like everybody's slobbering over this, this exercise that we did when we all went into Iraq?

TAPPER: I don't -- I can't speak for anybody else, but I think our coverage at ABC has been respectfully skeptical, as a piece I did Monday for world news was why are we there and how long are we going to be there.

I did yesterday for world news pointed out that the president was referring to exit strategies when they weren't exit strategies at all. So, maybe he -- maybe Howard's problem he doesn't watch enough ABC.

IMUS: Well, let's not be hating on Howard, but I hear what you're saying.

TAPPER: I mean, I'm just saying I think that we've been skeptical. I recall seeing Howard tweet about that, I think it was Monday morning. I would say that in general, any march to war or military operation or police action, whatever we're calling this should be treated with a huge dose of skepticism by the media, that's our role.

Maybe initially in the first 24 hours there was a rush to provide the basic information about what was going on. That there wasn't necessarily that step back where you do like, OK, now that we've given you this information about what we're doing and the extent of the involvement according to the government, et cetera, now it's time for the skeptical question.

Maybe that's the phenomenon that was going on that I mean, I just feel like we were pretty skeptical the whole time, appropriately skeptical.

IMUS: Did you see Maureen Dowd's piece yesterday, addressing the -- the tough babes, not babes, Secretary Clinton and others?

TAPPER: Yes, I like Maureen a lot. That column doesn't square with my reporting. My understanding of what happened is -- and I realize that she's got columns to write and such, but my understanding of what happened is that it was not girls against boys.

It was a little bit more complex than that and my understanding Secretary Clinton was actually pretty skeptical of military involvement and then her push, her real involvement in terms of tipping the scales came on Tuesday, two Tuesdays go when she told President Obama that Arab countries were willing to commit military forces to the operation.

That that played a significant role, but that's not Secretary Clinton is more influential than others and all of these girls got together and pushed Obama to -- I mean, I think that's a little silly.

IMUS: So, what you're essentially saying, Jake Tapper, ABC News, is that Maureen Dowd, "New York Times," is not only a frivolous journalist, but is writing a pretty much bogus column and taking a position that's absurd, is that basically it?

TAPPER: I would say that I respect Maureen Dowd and like her a lot personally, but the mean out there that she did not start, but this narrative that Samantha Power, Susan Rice and Hillary Clinton pushed Obama to go to war does not square with the reporting I have about how this decision was made -

IMUS: That's all --

TAPPER: That's how I put it. My understanding is that Secretary Clinton wasn't even patched into the situation room that Tuesday night from 9 to 11 when President Obama was meeting with his advisors and coming up with instructions to Dr. Rice of what to do at the United Nations the next day, which is, this is really the big pivotal point.

And Secretary Clinton, I think she had communications problem and was not even patched into that call. And you know, I think Samantha Power is a very respected member of the team, but I would not put her in the top three influencers of President Obama.

IMUS: Just another nitwit pushing the feminine agenda, wouldn't you say, Jake?

TAPPER: No, I would not. I would not. I don't know if that's a feminist agenda.

IMUS: Of course it is, come on, wake up here.

TAPPER: And even just, I mean, back a second. Even the idea of separating boys versus girls, I don't know that that advances the feminist agenda. And I thought the whole point of it was that individuals are individuals and that's how I've been reporting.

IMUS: We have Maureen Dowd and Rush Limbaugh wants to paint the president as a pansy, that's how I read it.

TAPPER: Finding common cause that's interesting.

IMUS: Everything else good with you?

TAPPER: Everything is great. The kids are good. The wife is happy. That's how I monitor things. My personal happiness is like fifth on the list. I'm pretty good, but the other three are great.

IMUS: You know, on a serious note, man, you've got your priorities straight. Good for you. All right, man, thanks.

TAPPER: Thank you.

IMUS: Jake Tapper, ABC News.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

JOSHI: Jake Tapper. Great and frequent guest on the IMUS IN THE MORNING and we have more coming up in today's show including Fox News terrorism expert Dr. Walid Phares. He's going to joining us.

Also Major Garrett from the National Journal and Fox Business's very own Charles Payne and Chris Cotter will be joining us. We, of course, going to continue to monitor the situation with live reports from Libya, Japan and Washington, D.C. all while keeping an eye on the markets as well as the day's top business stories. You are watching IMUS IN THE MORNING right here on the Fox Business Network.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

MCSHANE: We're back here on the IMUS IN THE MORNING program. Futures a little bit higher ahead of the open on Wall Street. We have the oil price at $103 a barrel, as we update you on the top business headlines of the day.

The news coming from Nokia, it's filed another patent infringement complaint against Apple. The company alleging virtually all of Apple's products including iPhones and iPads violate its patents.

Seven patents included here in the complaint from Nokia says its innovations are now being used by Apple for key product features like data synchronization and multitasking operating systems. See that's the Apple stock price in pre-market trading. It's not moving very much from yesterday's close of $350 a share.

Also amazon.com in the news, it looks like Amazon wants to become more than just a retailer. The company unveiling two new service allowing customers to store music, videos and photos on its servers and then access them from there.

Amazon says users will be able to play music on any Android device or PC or Mac so that's coming out of Amazon, interesting to follow their strategy on that front.

And Allied Financial is reportedly at this point close to filing for its initial public offering. Now this comes from Reuters, paperwork expected to be filed over the course of the next couple of weeks. Stock offering ultimately will raise somewhere between $6 billion and $7 billion.

But, the filing will be for smaller amounts than that and the IPO would allow the government to start selling its majority stake in the company, Allied Financial.

JOSHI: All right, well, our top story this morning. President Obama defends U.S. military action in Libya, as the fighting there between pro Gadhafi forces and the rebels continues to intensify.

Joining us now to talk about this is Fox News' Middle East expert, Dr. Walid Phares. Good morning, Dr. Phares. Thanks being with us this morning.

DR. WALID PHARES, FOX NEWS TERRORISM EXPERT (via telephone): Good morning, thanks for having me.

JOSHI: You know, the latest is that we know that rebel forces regained control of key oil ports. We know that Tripoli is on the map, what can we expect -- what are the big hurdles and, is Tripoli under threat, really?

PHARES: Well, basically, what the rebel forces have been able to do over the past few days to look at the big picture is that they regained their own territory. Remember, they were very close to Tripoli and most of these cities on the coast, east of the city of Sirte, which is the birthplace of Gadhafi.

They were taken back by Gadhafi and now taken back I think for good by the rebels. I think that the big battle is going to be the city of Ssirte. Gadhafi would call it maybe his own (inaudible).

If that battle, the outcome is in the interest of the rebels, I think they'll going to go all the way on the coast of Tripoli and they're going to be the second last battle of Tripoli. But we will see the outcome of the first one in the next few days.

MCSHANE: Right, well, that's the thing is yesterday they -- these reports started to come out, maybe the rebels are pushing into Sirte and those turned out to be unconfirmed and erroneous reports and it looks like they are hitting a lot of resistance there in Gadhafi's hometown.

I guess, the question after listening, Walid, to the president last night and reiterating this case for limited American involvement there is how much of a force can this rebel force be, given they are just getting the air support.

That there's not going to be, quote unquote, "boots on the ground" from sort of a NATO-led force or anything like that. Will it be enough and will they be able to push Gadhafi back and you know, push him out of power?

PHARES: Very good question. Actually, the rebels were more comfortable, if you can use that term to take back their own areas. But now they are close from what we call Gadhafi territories, where the tribes will support him and they are really acting, rebels as infantry while we're ensuring the air superiority and naval blockade of Gadhafi.

What the U.S. and NATO's strategy so far is to weaken the forces to a point the rebels can start making progress and the other problem is the rebels, one component of them, Islamist militias within the rebels are refusing, not just to have a multinational force.

But get training as well because that means we'll get on the ground and, be in contact with the population, which I think the rebels are not interested in seeing us do.

JOSHI: Dr. Phares, last night, President Obama said that Libya is not going to be the next Iraq. Do you believe that that is actually going to be the case?

PHARES: It would never be the next Iraq, but will be the next Libya. In the sense that once the Gadhafi forces are defeated and the Gadhafi fate will be, you know, determined, expect those forces will become the next rebels. Those rebels will reach Tripoli and form a government then those will in turn oppose that. We have to expect that for our public to understand.

MCSHANE: So then what is the end game if that's the case? I mean, is it an east and west Libya? Is it a split country? How does it end?

PHARES: If the rebels cross Sirte and reach Tripoli, they'll form the regime. The Gadhafi forces will become the rebels, mostly south in the deserts and start to harass them. I do expect, though, because we haven't identified the most democratic elements of the rebels that there's going to be tensions among the rebels once they form the government.

Actually, it's going to look more like Afghanistan rather than another Iraq. But, we can still do a lot of good things if we identify the democratic elements among the rebels. I think we have a negative point here.

JOSHI: Well, it may not be the next Iraq, but Afghanistan not necessarily a positive situation. What is the timeline for all of this resolving itself?

PHARES: That's all on the ground, if the rebels can take Sirte in the next few days into weeks then they'll march to Tripoli. We're talking about one to two months.

Once in Tripoli, if they can defeat their regime, if there is an exit strategy for that regime then they can install theirs by the end of the spring, early summer.

But as I said there is no insurance policy for what happens after that if we don't have a partner among the rebels who becomes the democratic solution.

MCSHANE: Very, very uncertain. Dr. Walid Phares, as always, thanks for joining us. Appreciate it this morning.

PHARES: Thank you for having me.

JOSHI: All right, well, don't go anywhere. We'll check the latest business headlines, when we return, but just a reminder. We're going to be live all week and we, of course, have a great line-up of guests including Judge Andrew Napolitano, Geraldo Rivera, Sean Hannity and former U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, John Bolten.

We have a great week, a great line-up and we'll be right back after the short break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

DON IMUS, HOST, "IMUS IN THE MORNING": This is the IMUS IN THE MORNING program, time now for a business update, from the FOX Business Network, here's Connell McShane.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CONNELL MCSHANE, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: And an address to the nation last night, President Obama strongly defending his decision to bomb targets in Libya saying failure to act would have led to the slaughter of thousands of Libyans civilians. The president also reiterating that Moammar Gadhafi must go, the Libyan leader is not being targeted in the attacks. There are still though a number of unanswered questions as we come on the air this morning as the fighting between Gadhafi's forces and the rebels continues to intensify. So, we'll have the latest from there.

Meanwhile, in Japan, the news keeps getting worse at that troubled nuclear plant, in Fukushima, traces of plutonium, one of the world's most dangerous substances have turned up in the soil around the facility and radioactive water continues to leak from at least two of the six reactors. Japanese officials now looking to expand the exclusion zone which means the immediate evacuation of additional 130,000 people in what is already of course one of the worst nuclear disasters in history. So, that's what we are covering.

Good morning, welcome back to IMUS IN THE MORNING, I'm Connell McShane along with Shibani Joshi. As we said a lot going on. Markets though are pretty quiet and were yesterday as well.

SHIBANI JOSHI, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Yes. Certainly, we're continuing to watch oil take a step back in today's trading session, you can see down about 78 cents, continuing a three-day losing streak as you have investors focusing on Japan and decreased demand and not so much on the Libyan situation at least for the moment, we know things can change on a dime. U.S. markets looking pretty good this morning and we have some great guests. Yesterday, we were talking about the final four and we have Chris Cotter of course from the FOX Business Network coming onto talk with us about an interesting gambling angle. That VCU was actually the longest long shot in history and if you placed a $1 bet on VCU, you would be $90,000. We're not condoning gambling. We're not condoning gambling, interesting little tidbit.

MCSHANE: We're not, but Cotter is. And we'll be on to talk about that in a little while, as we saw there, Charles Payne is coming up with us. And just a few minutes, Major Garrett from the National Journal with his analysis of what is going on in Libya and the president's speech.

JOSHI: And we'll follow all that, of course our top story this morning, President Obama addressed the nation last night and he defended U.S. military action in Libya. Our Rich Edson is standing by in D.C. with more on what the president had to say last night. Good morning, Rich.

RICH EDSON, FOX BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Shibani. President Obama says at this moment in that country, it is appropriate for the United States to act, refusing to wait for the images of slaughter and mass graves.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

PRES. BARACK OBAMA (D), UNITED STATES: I made it clear that Gadhafi had lost the confidence of his people and the legitimacy to lead. And I said that he needed to step down from power. In the face of the world's condemnation, Gadhafi chose to escalate his attacks. Launching a military campaign against the Libyan people, innocent people were targeted for killing.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

EDSON: The president says, he wants Gadhafi to leave. Did not say what would happen if he fails to leave, says he would try to get Gadhafi to leave through diplomacy. The president repeatedly called the U.S. involvement in Libya an action, never a war, he failed to provide a limit on cost or time commitment, to that House Speaker John Boehner says, whether it is the American resources that will be required, our standards and objectives for engaging the rebel opposition or how this action is consistent with U.S. policy goals, the speech failed to provide Americans much clarity to our involvement in Libya. Today in London, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is meeting with other coalition members including a representative for the Libyan opposition, senior administration official says, the U.S. envoy will soon travel to Benghazi to meet with opposition leaders. Official says, the U.S. had not made a decision on whether to help arm the rebels. Shibani, Connell, back to you.

JOSHI: All right. Thanks Rich, you are right. He did not utter the three-letter word, war, but he did also not outline a game plan as well. Well, let's turn to more on Libya. Moammar Gadhafi's inner circle may be cracking according to U.S. intelligence. His top military officials are reportedly wondering whether Gadhafi can even survive and remain in power and morale amongst these troops has apparently is also very low. But, those troops reportedly pushing back rebels this morning using heavy artillery, Libyan forces are fending off an attack on Gadhafi's home town of Sirte. The U.S. is also sending an envoy to meet rebels in Benghazi and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton will meet with the rebel leader and an international conference getting underway in London, actually going on right now, focusing on post Gadhafi Libya.

And Syria's government will resign today, according to a top official there. And a new cabinet member apparently will be named in less than 24 hours. Meanwhile, supporters of President Assad pouring into Damascus, the main square is blocked off by police after days of anti-Assad protests. There have been reports of Syrian forces opening fires on those protesters as well.

And Japan, it remains on maximum alert to control the current nuclear crisis. The prime minister calling the situation the worst problem the country has faced since World War II. But many are criticizing him for handling -- his handling of the disaster and pushing him to expand the evacuation zone around the nuclear plant. Already 70,000 people have been evacuated, pushing possibly for 130,000 people to be evacuated, meanwhile and plutonium discovered in the soil at the Fukushima plant, it was found at low risk levels in some tests at the facility but plutonium is highly carcinogenic, and one of the world's most dangerous substances according to experts.

And the coast guard blasting the White House's handling of the Gulf Oil's spill last year. A new report says that the Obama administration did not have an effective communication system set-up around the gulf disaster. And it often severely restricted the release of timely and accurate information according to the report, the coast guard says that officials on the ground were not even allowed to give interviews and they couldn't even release pictures without prior approval.

MCSHANE: All right. Some other stories we have for you here this morning, include the Supreme Court, taking on a huge sex discrimination lawsuit against Wal-Mart. The court is going to decide if this case can proceed as a class action and if it does, then it goes back down to a lower court with maybe as many as 1.5 million female employees as plaintiffs. Now, they claim Wal-Mart favors men over women in pay and promotions, Supreme Court's decision likely to take a few months.

And Nokia in the news this morning because it's filing another patent infringement complaint against Apple. Now, the company alleges virtually all of Apple's products including iPhones and iPads violate its patents, see the Apples' stock price pretty much where it was yesterday, $350 per share, seven patents included in the news complaint. Nokia says their innovations are now being used by Apple for key product features like data synchronization and multi-tasking operating systems.

JOSHI: All right. Now, time for a check of your national forecast now with Maria Molina in the FOX Business Weather Center. Maria, I'm still wearing my puffy jacket. When can I take that thing off?

MARIA MOLINA, METEOROLOGIST: Oh, you'll be going to take it off any time soon! Even as we take off the weekend in New York City, it's going to remain a little bit on the unusually cool side and actually for today, want to look at your travel forecast across the northeast. A lot of sunshine but that is not really going to help things, a lot warmer, highs will still be below average, 46 will be your high in New York City and that's going to be the case as well in Detroit and Chicago with your highs only in the lower 40s, Atlanta, you will dry things out, some patchy fog lingering around Denver but you guys are going to keep things dry and then some thunderstorms will fire up in Dallas later on today -- Shibani.

JOSHI: All right. Thanks, Maria.

MCSHANE: All right. Coming up here for you, we will have Major Garrett from the National Journal, his analysis of the president's speech last night and what is coming up in Libya, all this as the IMUS IN THE MORNING program continues, right now on FOX Business.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

IMUS: Please welcome to the IMUS IN THE MORNING program, the author of "Red," one of the great rock voices in Rock & Roll, Sammy Hagar. Good morning, Mr. Hagar. Oh, maybe I should turn the mike on.

SAMMY HAGAR, MUSICIAN AND AUTHOR: Yes.

IMUS: How are you?

HAGAR: You guys don't give me a volume control. I noticed -- Rock and Roll, we go just collect.

IMUS: The other first thing I noticed, not that it makes any difference, I walked up and I shook hands with you, I thought, he looks pretty good because for example, not comparing you to Tommy James and the Shondells, but Tommy was here and Tommy has been in a long road.

HAGAR: Well, Tommy, I think he's got a couple years on me. I was 63, you know, so I think Tommy might be getting up near that 70.

IMUS: He's a nice man.

HAGAR: Yes.

IMUS: And a nice guy.

HAGAR: He had some great hits.

IMUS: Oh man, it has been rough, so. He had to try to get money from Morris Levy, so.

HAGAR: And don't falling off the wagon in front of me, OK, Pal? That's not what I mean.

IMUS: You have ten years for that.

HAGAR: We're going to take Imus off the wagon! Whoa! OK.

IMUS: So, why did you call it "Red"?

HAGAR: I have kind of been a red rocker and I think it's kind of little play on a couple things, but, you know, "Red," you know, have you read the book so far, you know, that's my marking people coming up with brilliant ideas.

IMUS: Well, it comes from the song, right?

HAGAR: Yes. And I have been a red rocker since 1977, you know.

IMUS: So, may I ask you questions and I already know the answer to, but just to try to get you to, you know, tell maybe Charles.

HAGAR: OK. I'll go along. Listen, I'm from the west coast, you understand. This is early.

IMUS: Yes. So, why did you decide to write this?

HAGAR: I think quite honestly while I still remember, I want my story told, I decided to took this year off, I have been touring since 1972, `73, I'm doing album, tour, album, tour, album, tour, my whole life. And I said, I'm taking this year off and will write the book, even though I wrote it last year.

IMUS: Yes.

HAGAR: But I did, I wrote it the fall of last year to come out this year, and I want to promote this book. My mother passed two years ago and she is a very big part of this book and very big part of what I am. And I kind of give for her too.

IMUS: I actually read almost all of it and I read the excerpt both in Rolling Stone in which he talks about, the excerpt is when you met Eddie Van Halen and his brother.

HAGAR: A lot changed between the beginning and the end of that band.

IMUS: So, before we talk about how you got with him and all this. Have you talked to him since Tucson?

HAGAR: No.

IMUS: OK. So, in Tucson, tell me what happened in Tucson.

HAGAR: Well, Tucson was the end of the reunion tour, 2004.

IMUS: Right.

HAGAR: And this is in the book now, we'll going to give it away, though...

IMUS: That is fine.

HAGAR: All right. There is more than this in the book.

IMUS: It is a terrific book, and there's no reason not to talk about these things. I mean, taken Kenny Chesney back stage and taken the thing with Toby Keith. I mean, you can tell us stuff.

HAGAR: Well, the last tour, I mean, the last show, we did two nights in Tucson, and it was the, you know, we did 80 shows and it was kind of a disaster tour. I really was hoping the reunion tour -- I hadn't seen these guys for ten years, I had been, you know, touring with my band and all that stuff and so, I come back to do the reunion hoping it will be great and we can be friends again. We left on a bad note, the original band, first ten- year run was fantastic, left on a bad note last year when sour, broke up, OK, you know, I never see you again and then reunion, OK, great, Irving -- you know, put it all together.

IMUS: Brilliant guy.

HAGAR: Yes. Brilliant guy.

IMUS: He goes all that, yes.

HAGAR: Yes, so, he made it happen but the last show was -- it was that much different from the other shows but it was a complete unravels. You know, my man, Ed, he was out of it, man.

IMUS: His problem was drugs, alcohol or both.

HAGAR: I would say probably just about everything. You know what I mean? Is there anything else besides those two? Because I would throw that in there. Honest to God...

IMUS: It can complicate things, as you might know.

HAGAR: But I was really hoping it would have been great. You know, I was looking for that reunion, that friendship come back, you know, one of my dearest friends in the world wrote some of the greatest songs in rock history together and I was hoping for a little bit better reunion, but it wasn't up to standards. I don't think.

IMUS: So, the last thing you said to him was.

HAGAR: Keep your hands off my shirt.

IMUS: I think you drop the F-bomb on him, no.

HAGAR: Oh man. The f-bomb was prevalent on that tour.

IMUS: I mean, he's a brilliant guy, didn't he?

HAGAR: One of the greatest guitar players in history of rock, certainly, and a sweet, wonderful guy. Something happened in that time when I left and when I came back, I don't know what. But it was Charlie Sheen on ten, you know, seen Charlie, he turned pretty big about-face in about a month.

IMUS: Yes.

HAGAR: About three weeks ago, I have my coffee and writing lyrics for my record, doing a CD and I'm writing these lyrics and have my coffee and, my wife, "oh my God, honey, you got to come and see this, come and see this quick, quick, quick," she's watching TV, I run in, I see Charlie. He goes, he looks just like Eddie, and I said he really does, man, he certainly going down that road, you know.

IMUS: What Eddie is doing now? Do you know?

HAGAR: Well, the latest pictures I have seen, it's not really my business but Edie looks great. And I hope he's doing great, he got remarried and everything. You know, we're rock stars, we know this, right? These guys mean all of us, you take us off the leash for too long and with sex, drugs, rock and royal, fame, fortune, you know, it is all right there for you on ten. You have been there. And it's really...

IMUS: Why do you have to drag me into this?

HAGAR: Well, you drug me in!

IMUS: I'm not going to write a book about what I did.

HAGAR: I don't care. You know, I want my story told. You know, the only thing -- my -- I have a nine-year-old and 14-year-old daughters, and I'm going to make them read Keith Richards books first and then, I'm going to say, your dad is a sweet guy, it's like a funny papers now, you know.

IMUS: Did you read his book?

HAGAR: Yes, I did.

IMUS: Not a bad book, isn't it?

HAGAR: It's a little draggy in parts because I like to get right to the dirt, into the stones, I want to know about the stones.

IMUS: Well not, David Lee Roth.

HAGAR: Oh, no, here we go. There is no reason to talk about my man.

IMUS: Why not? You went on tour with him.

HAGAR: I went on tour with Ted Nugent.

(LAUGHTER)

IMUS: I read something about...

HAGAR: A more interesting man, by the way.

IMUS: So how did you happen to -- he left Van Halen, you were with Montrose then, right?

HAGAR: No, I was -- I can't drive five...

IMUS: OK. So, tell me how you got together with Van Halen.

HAGAR: I had this 512 Ferrari, box are 512 and when I went on my VOA tour, I put it into the shop where the guy bought it from in Los Angeles, who was a top Ferrari mechanic in America. And Claudio Sampoli (ph), and Claudio did a complete tune-up and you know, just really got the car in tip top shape, because they are special cars. And I hadn't picked it up yet, Eddie was in there. I guess David left the band and he was in there with one of his Lamborghinis, and which an also an Italian exotic car. And Claudio, Eddie goes, wow, it's a beautiful car, who is -- oh, that belongs to Sammy, you should call him and get him in the band. Claudio doesn't even know Dave left to anything, right?

IMUS: Right.

HAGAR: So, Eddie goes, do you this guy's phone number? Yes, I got it here. Eddie calls me up from the damn shop, I've been home from tour two days as getting ready to go down and get my car the next day

IMUS: Had you known him...

HAGAR: We met a few times.

IMUS: OK.

HAGAR: And really had a great, you know, I remember one time we did this big festival together, you know, like it was Boston, Van Halen, myself, Pat Benatar, bunch of bands and, you know, 80,000 people or something, and Eddie comes running, you know, Pat -- oh, Sammy Hagar, he goes, it's kind of amazing, oh man, I'm a big Montrose fan, like, I really been -- and he goes, and Dave walking by, this was before they really made it, their first album, they're going to start to get hot and he goes, Dave look at Sammy Hagar and Dave goes like this...

(LAUGHTER)

I'll show you someday, pal.

IMUS: How good a drummer is Alex?

HAGAR: Alex is great drummer.

IMUS: Is he?

HAGAR: Alex is a great man too. I wish he were my big brother, Alex Van Halen was my big brother, playing drums in my band.

IMUS: Well, he got off the rails, too, didn't he?

HAGAR: Yes. Al was out there. He was one of the most fun drinking guys you will ever be with right, but he would take everybody down, the last guy standing and then he'd go down. But Al, he took the oath after the first 150 tour. And never came back, I mean, never fell down.

IMUS: Really?

HAGAR: Yes. In this business, going out on tour for your whole life.

IMUS: We feel like we know you guys because...

HAGAR: You do. I know you, too.

IMUS: So, we wonder what happens and I actually think people care. I mean, I.

HAGAR: They do care.

IMUS: Beyond the VH1 stuff and so on, and random notes I think people care about Eddie Van Halen and what -- because you paint a really dark portrait of those days.

HAGAR: No, no. The only -- the only reunion tour. There is two chapters on the beautiful times, when we had more fun than any bands ever had in our life, and made more money and more fame and fortune than you could just, you know, for ten life times, you know, that was great and I think, I get fan letters, I get people on my Web site and people just always going, why don't you -- why can't you guys do a record? Why are you guys doing another tour? You know, Van Halen is a huge band, one of the biggest bands in the world and I get a lot of pressure because they don't know, they think, why won't you do it?

IMUS: Yes.

HAGAR: Well, I would do it in a second if it was like the old days but under the circumstances, it's not worth it anything about.

IMUS: How do you know that Eddie straightened out? Looks like he straightened out. He's got remarried.

HAGAR: Well, yes, but, fine. I mean, it's like, I'm happy. Come on, now.

IMUS: Now, this tequila company you founded.

HAGAR: There you go.

IMUS: Turned into a goldmine, isn't it?

HAGAR: Yes, it did.

IMUS: Did you sell it or.

HAGAR: I sold 80 percent of my -- I started this whole thing from scratch.

IMUS: It was called a?

HAGAR: Cabo Wabo tequila.

IMUS: And you sold it for $80 million?

HAGAR: I sold it for $100 million.

IMUS: Oh man!

HAGAR: And I only sold 80 percent of it.

IMUS: Oh, I see.

(CROSSTALK)

HAGAR: It is awesome.

IMUS: Good for you.

HAGAR: I think that drove the Van Halen brothers crazy. They actually, quote, I heard from Irving, he said he got a call and they said, how can we stop him! Why! What did I ever do to you! You know, its fine, you know?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

JOSHI: See, this is business angle of everything, Cabo-Wabo Tequila, you know, $100 million.

All right. We've got lots more coming up, coming up after the break, congressional correspondent for the National Journal, Major Garrett, he will be talking to us live and don't miss tomorrow's show, we're going to have radio talk show host and Imus favorite Michael Graham, political commentator. Imogen Lloyd Webber and from FOX News, Bret Baier, all tomorrow morning starting at 6:00 a.m. Eastern Time right here on the FOX Business Network, giving you the power to prosper.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

MCSHANE: All right. We continue here on the IMUS IN THE MORNING program, $103 oil this morning, down three days in a row coming into today, so, another decline there, that's where we stand there with the stock index futures this -- point, in just a little bit higher after yesterday's Wall Street declines, we're up 15 points on Dow futures and we're up about a point on the S&P futures.

JOSHI: And the president strongly defended U.S. military attacks on Libya in the national address to the nation last night but the speech also left a number of unanswered questions, and didn't ease some of the concerns that some members of Congress have expressed in recent days. Major Garrett covers Capitol Hill for the National Journal and joins us now to talk about all this. Good morning, Major.

MAJOR GARRETT, CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, guys.

JOSHI: OK. Right after that. How would you rate or grade President Obama's speech last night?

GARRETT: You know, I leave that to members of Congress. I'm not trying to dodge it but I really don't get into business of grading presidential speeches but I would tell you this, the members of Congress, who were concerned about the longevity and scope and rationale for this mission, have a better idea at the rationale but are still concerned about the scope and its duration. And they don't know what the end game looks like and I think many Republicans want to know if the world will be better off, Libya would be better off without Gadhafi, why didn't the president say last night, Gadhafi has to go and United States and its coalition partners will at least try to be the instrument of that departure. I think that is the big unanswered question for members of Congress.

However hours before the president gave a speech, Mitch McConnell, the Senate republican leader said what is becoming clear, and if it wasn't clear from the beginning, to most members of Congress, the president is within his legal authority to carry out this mission. And when you have the republican leader in the Senate say that, you know that that end of this debate is basically settled. And the president indicated last night, he's not going to come to Congress to seek additional funding for this mission that the United States costs will be contained within the existing Pentagon budget. So, Congress can question but Congress is not going to have a real legitimate opportunity to either draw this mission down or stop it completely. It's going to go on.

MCSHANE: That is kind of interesting major in terms of what the role would be of the opposition party, the Republicans and Congress, going forward from here. The "Wall Street Journal" has an editorial this morning that addresses that and says that the Republicans saying, can behave as a constructive opposition. Because some people are thinking that you know, given this subject matter, that this is almost been a knee-jerk reaction to almost anti-Obama in terms of hey, this president is making this move to go into Libya. So, we're opposed to him because we're in this party. I mean, what do they do next?

GARRETT: Well, that's right. There is a very real fear of -- I think Republicans have that if their objections, their questions are viewed entirely through a partisan prism and this mission is successful, the civilians are saved, Gadhafi eventually leaves and Libya charts a new future, the president will look much better than the current questions currently cast him in. And I think, when you saw Speaker Boehner last week, not criticize, not lash out necessarily at the president, but put together seven questions he thought needed to be answered, well, the president in good measure tried to at least address and if not entirely answer, all of them answer some of them in the speech last night. So in that respect you have the natural tension between Congress and an executive branch working itself out in full public view. I don't think Republicans are at the point where they risk that sense that they are overtly and unrelentingly partisan about this operation, but that is a risk.

JOSHI: Major, one story that we are watching today, relating to Libya, is this 35 nation conference going on in London today. We know that Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is there, he's already starting to meet with various heads of -- from Libya as well as other people around the globe. What should we expect actually to materialize out of this meeting today, if anything?

GARRETT: Well, my harsh and cold experience with global fund-raising forums like this, and I attended a couple of President Obama, when I covered the White house at FOX dealing with Afghanistan, an issue where NATO is much more heavily involved, had much greater mission and a much greater sense of purpose, those donor conferences tend in the main to generate large up front numbers and meager or much smaller subsequent follow-through numbers.

MCSHANE: All right.

GARRETT: So, you have to keep in mind that whatever is pledged today, it's one of those pledge drives that has a very hard time in the receiving end of it or the gathering of the goods, and because things are unstable in Libya because there is not a firm understanding within Libya itself, let alone the west or NATO who the rebels are and their agenda is, I expect these donors conference to be much more show than substance.

MCSHANE: All right. Good enough. Major, always good to talk to you and.

GARRETT: Thanks.

MCSHANE: And we'll talk again soon, OK?

GARRETT: OK. I hope so.

MCSHANE: Major Garrett from the national journal, quick break here and then our top stories coming out at the top of the hour as we continue here, IMUS IN THE MORNING on FOX Business.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CONNELL MCSHANE, FBN CORRESPONDENT: In an address to the nation last night President Obama strongly defending his decision to bomb targets in Libya saying failure to act would have led to the slaughter of thousands of Libyan civilians. The President also reiterating that while Moammar Gadhafi must go the Libyan leader is not being targeted in these attacks.

There are still though, a number of unanswered questions this morning as the fighting between Gadhafi forces and the rebels continues to intensify.

A live report from Fox News Rick Leventhal just ahead.

Meanwhile, in Japan the news keeps getting worse at that troubled nuclear plant as traces of plutonium, one of the world's most dangerous substances, now turned up in soil around the facility. The radioactive water continues to leak from at least two of the six reactors. Japanese officials now looking to expand the exclusion zone which would mean the evacuation of an additional 130,000 people in what is already one of the worst nuclear disasters in history.

So we're covering it all for you this morning, along with Shibani Joshi. I'm Connell McShane. Good morning as we continue here on IMUS IN THE MORNING with a busy Tuesday and interesting market day in that the -- the oil prices coming down yet again.

SHIBANI JOSHI, FBN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, yet again oil prices now down almost a $1 a barrel as OPEC countries have boosted output to make up for the lost output that we know that Libya is facing. The stock market not really seeing a lot of big bargain hunting going on in the market this week; it's the end of the first quarter.

Investors still standing on the sidelines so, we are looking for a slightly higher open this morning.

Also, coming up later on this morning, we have Charles Payne and Chris Cotter of the Fox Business Network, of course they're kind of like Stuart's angels you know.

MCSHANE: Well, sort of.

JOSHI: Stuart's angels. You've got two of the three angels --

MCSHANE: Stuart's angels.

JOSHI: -- coming on.

MCSHANE: That's good. Well, we'll talk to Charles about stocks, that's for sure. And to see what he thinks about the stock market going forward from here. Chris will talk a little basketball and much more. So that is all coming up along with Imus's conversation with Congressman Anthony Weiner.

But again, the top story of the morning continues to be what the President said last night. In his address to the nation defended U.S. military action in Libya and our Rich Edson standing by in the D.C. bureau with more on what the President had to say for himself. Good morning, Rich.

RICH EDSON, FBN D.C. BUREAU CORRESPONDENT: Good morning Connell, President Obama says, the U.S. coalition prevented the Libyan government from slaughtering its people and had the U.S. not acted Libyan refugees, he says, would have escaped into bordering Egypt and Tunisia endangering government transitions in those nations.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: For generations, the United States of America has played a unique role as an anchor of global security and as an advocate for human freedom. Mindful of the risks and costs of military action we are naturally reluctant to use force to solve the world's many challenges. But when our interests and values are at stake, we have a responsibility to act.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

EDSON: In what the President repeatedly called an action, not a war, he failed to outline how much his administration is willing to spend and how long it is willing to fight in Libya.

House Speaker John Boehner says nine days into these military intervention Americans still have no answer to the fundamental question what does success in Libya look like?

In London now Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is meeting with a representative from the Libyan opposition along with other nations from this international coalition. Senior administration official says the U.S. envoy will soon travel to Benghazi to meet with opposition leaders to increase practical connections face-to-face.

The official says the U.S. has not made a decision on whether to help arm the rebels. Connell and Shibani back to you.

MCSHANE: That meeting that is taking place in London today, you mentioned Secretary Clinton is there at it. They brought in one of the leader as you said of the rebel movement and not technically at the meeting right? Wasn't invited to the meeting but holding a number of kind of side sessions? Is that how they are working it out and what do they hope to accomplish there?

EDSON: Right, this side-bilateral-side sessions --

(CROSS TALK)

MCSHANE: Right.

EDSON: -- and they're basically hoping to figure out what's -- what's the end game here. And this is the issue that faces the Obama administration along with this international coalition. What happens to get Gadhafi to leave and if he doesn't leave, what happens and the President outlined last night that he wants to pursue Gadhafi leaving through diplomacy and that's something that really has to be worked out with the other nations involved in this coalition.

That along with military strategies one can imagine they're all on the table here as these meetings are underway in -- in London.

MCSHANE: All right, that's Mahmoud Jabril, who is this rebel leader that they are meeting with on the side. So we'll see what comes out of that.

Rich thanks. Rich Edson in D.C.

Let's go to Libya now and see about the latest on the ground there as the -- the coalition airstrikes continue and the rebels according to some reports backed up a little bit by the Gadhafi forces overnight.

Rick Leventhal, of course, has been covering it throughout he's with us from near Ras Lanuf in Libya. What's -- what's going on there today, Rick? Because yesterday the narrative was the rebels are really making some big advances. And then we're reading from some of the wire reports out today that maybe that is being turned around to some degree. Is it?

RICK LEVENTHAL, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: It's a -- it's a pattern we have seen, Connell, over the past couple of weeks, where the opposition fighters make advances and then, they get hit hard by Gadhafi tanks and artillery and they are forced to retreat. Yesterday we told you that had made it to the outskirts of Sirte, which is Gadhafi's home town and very far west from our position here in Ras Lanuf.

Well, overnight they were beaten back by those troops and are now in Bin Jawad which about 30 miles to our west, and we're told that is front line at this hour.

We're continuing to see rebel fighters on their gun trucks, un- armored gun trucks without helmets and body armor heading towards the fight. And we spoke to some of them this morning as they fueled up their vehicles and restocked with food and water and supplies. And they tell us that they are -- that their heart is in this and that they are willing to continue to fight even though they are out gunned.

We've also seen video today, Connell, from Mesrata and witnesses there tell us that it looks like Fallujah, in Iraq; that the battles for weeks between Gadhafi tanks and troops and the opposition fighters has left that town heavily scarred, many deaths, many injuries in Mesrata. There have been coalition airstrikes on Gadhafi positions there but they have not been able to force Gadhafi's troops from that town and it remains a battle zone today.

But again, Connell the situation here on the ground, when Ras Lanuf, a major oil refining town, this town in Brega, an oil shipping, an oil port, remain in opposition control but further west, past Bin Jawad Gadhafi's troops are still entrenched.

MCSHANE: All right, Rick Leventhal there live in Ras Lanuf, we'll check back with you, thanks Rick.

JOSHI: All right some breaking news where of course this morning General Electric making another energy acquisition. The company is buying a 90 percent stake in Converteam for $3.2 billion, Converteam makes power conversion systems. GE may buy the rest of the company over the next two to five years. So again, GE making a $3.2 billion acquisition of Converteam.

We'll continue to watch this story and see how GE shares open up at the opening bell in about two-and-a-half hours.

MCSHANE: Yes there's a light volume in the pre-market, they look a little lower and $19.75.

Let's move to Japan now, where things continue to get worse at the troubled nuclear plant, traces of plutonium turning up in the soil around this facility and radioactive water continues to leak.

Fox News Radio reporter Mike Tuggle in Japan this morning; he joins us with the very latest. Mike, good to have you back with us. Plutonium doesn't sound good. What can you tell us about the latest there?

MIKE TUGGLE, REPORTER, FOX NEWS RADIO: No, it's not good, Connell. But it's not as bad as you may think. There are just been traces of plutonium found near Japan's troubled nuclear power plant and they are not stopping the workers from trying to avoid what could be a full melt down. Plutonium is deadly if inhaled or ingested but the EPA says external exposure poses little health risk.

Tokyo Electric Company, the power company today, did confirm the plutonium that they have found did come from the damaged fuel rods in Reactor Number 3, and that is the only reactor with Moxs (ph), which is a mixed oxide fuel made from uranium and plutonium -- Connell.

MCSHANE: So they're going to have to do what? Evacuate more people? What is the next step here?

TUGGLE: No, they don't have to evacuate more people. The levels are so small that they don't pose a health risk unless you physically ingest them. So they are not expanding the -- the evacuation. What they are doing is they're going to be monitoring this much more heavily.

MCSHANE: Could you give us somewhat of an update on maybe the northern part of the country? Because lost in all of this, and talk about Fukushima, is the, you know, the -- the dead and the missing total that continues to add up and the recovery from that, what's the latest there?

TUGGLE: The latest there is that we've heard the official numbers are 11,000 dead, they expect that to go up to at least 18,000 dead. They continue to look for another 17,000 to 20,000 people victims from this. And they're still -- in a really bad situation in the north of Japan. They are still having a hard time getting supplies, getting food, getting clothes and finding shelter to weather this horrible event that's happened -- Connell.

JOSHI: Mike -- Mike we're also hearing that life, we know is -- still there are a lot of challenges going on as you just mentioned, but life for the unaffected is slowly getting back to normal. We're hearing word that the transportation systems are getting back up and running, airports, trains, et cetera. What can you tell us about how it's all coming together?

TUGGLE: Well, it really is and -- and really, the trains and the airports started working days after the event, so they have really been moving people in and out. And, that was a question that a lot of people had, especially foreigners at the time, right after the event, was should we leave? It was a question I had asked, because I have a 22-month-old and I left for a week with my daughter, because I wasn't sure that she needed to be here.

But we came back and I'm seeing more and more foreigners come back. So the situation is continuing to level out. In places like Tokyo where the radioactive levels are at a normal level, so they are not elevated here, people continue to try to find a normal way to live.

MCSHANE: All right, Mike. Mike Tuggle, good reporting for us, Fox News Radio live from Tokyo.

JOSHI: All right, checking more of this morning's business stories, Nokia filing another patent infringement complaint against Apple. The company alleges virtually all of Apple's products including things like iPhones and iPads violate its patent. Seven patents are included in the new Nokia complaint and the company says its innovations are now being used by Apple for key product features including things like data synchronization as well as multi-tasking. In total the second claim now has 46 patents in suit against Apple. We continue to watch the story, Apple shares pretty flat ahead of the morning open.

And the Supreme Court today will take on a huge sex discrimination suit against Wal-Mart. The court will decide if the case can proceed as a class-action suit. If so the case will go back to a lower court with maybe as many as 1.5 million female employees as plaintiffs. They claim Wal-Mart favors men over women in pay and promotion. The Supreme Court's decision will likely take about a few months to actually resolve itself.

And the IMUS IN THE MORNING show continues now. Lots of great guests continuing again, as we said, Charles Payne, Chris Cotter will be joining us. Lots more and we'll continue to watch the markets and what it means for your money, as the show continues.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

(REPEAT PACKAGE: INTERVIEW WITH NEW YORK CONGRESSMAN ANTHONY WEINER)

(END VIDEOTAPE)

MCSHANE: Always somebody to mess around too much in Congress. He's a pretty funny guy, even though he made fun of our slogans, "Power to Prosper", come on, Congressman.

Now don't go anywhere here because we will -- coming up have the top business headlines of the day. And all week long, we have a great line-up of live guests coming up: Sean Hannity, Geraldo, Bret Baier.

And we're going to be back here this morning in just a moment as you're watching the IMUS IN THE MORNING program on the Fox Business Network, giving you the power to prosper.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

JOSHI: Twenty-three past the hour; welcome back to IMUS IN THE MORNING. We've got Charles Payne waiting in the wings; a visual spectacle.

MCSHANE: He is well-dressed as always.

JOSHI: Well-dressed as always.

Recapping a story that we told you about the top of the hour: General Electric making another energy-related acquisition. The company is buying a 90 percent stake in Converteam, $3.2 billion. Converteam makes power conversion systems. GE may buy the rest of the company over the next two to five years. And looking at GE shares, ahead of the open, trading slightly lower -- closing at $19.75 yesterday and trading slightly lower ahead of the open.

MCSHANE: All right. Let's get to the aforementioned visual spectacle, Charles Payne joins us. That is a nice shirt and tie combination.

CHARLES PAYNE, FBN CONTRIBUTOR: Well, thank you very much.

MCSHANE: What's going on? How are you doing? All right.

PAYNE: I'm doing great.

MCSHANE: What did you think of the speech last night?

PAYNE: you know what? If I had any hair I would have ripped it out. It's just -- it's the hypocrisy. I don't know. It feels to me that liberals have to size themselves, have to cleanse themselves, you know. We love the environment so we drive a Prius and even though we use gas, we use less gas.

We're not going to kill Gadhafi. We are going to kill all of the soldiers, destroy all of his tanks and these other guys, the opposition, who, by the way, never had a name or a title last night -- they're going to kill them.

Listen, let's just cut straight to the chase and be honest.

JOSHI: But are you really surprised by President Obama's remarks? This has kind of been the tone throughout his presidency.

PAYNE: I'm surprised that politicians in general, that they continue to defy -- they just think we're just so stupid. It does bother me and it does, and I'm bewildered by it.

Listen, we want this guy dead, let's be honest with it and this is regime change and it's not a humanitarian issue. If it is, it really makes us look bad to the rest of the world that needs real humanitarian aid.

MCSHANE: Ok. So let me get to the bottom of this. Charles, you're anchoring today after us, right? 9:20 Eastern time --

PAYNE: Yes.

MCSHANE: So we'll see Charles from 9:20 to 11:00.

Let's get to the bottom of what you really like to see then. If not what the President is saying, you're saying you're in favor of regime change flat out. That means boots on the ground, doesn't it? Risking more American lives and more and longer involvement, Iraq all over again --

PAYNE: That's exactly what we're doing except being honest about it. I'm just all for honesty right now. I just think, you know, we're not being -- we're calling it a humanitarian issue, but what it really is, is that we're trying to, we would love to kill Gadhafi --

MCSHANE: So you're saying we're firing the bombs, but we're trying to hit Gadhafi with them. If we said that you'd be fine with the operation as it stands.

PAYNE: I just would be fine if he says, listen, instead of trying to paint this as something that it's not, it's being honest. That's all.

JOSHI: It's all about the messaging.

PAYNE: Right. The messaging. Listen, what you're trying to do is, if you're going to do that kind of (INAUDIBLE) obviously when they had Tripoli surrounded a few weeks ago we would have implemented this plan then, it would have been smoother and -- quote unquote -- "countless lives", we could have saved them back then as well.

JOSHI: Let's talk with the markets. You're a man who dabbles in the market. This is what you do every single day. This is your night job, right? This is your second job.

PAYNE: This is the most onerous part-time job anyone has ever had.

JOSHI: But talk about the markets because you always talk about this when the markets dip lower you see it as a buying opportunity, but most Americans out there, they get kind of frazzled when they see the markets go down. What are you doing right now? What should we all be doing right now?

PAYNE: You know, it's obviously harder than it was in March of 2009, but by the same token, to your point, everybody is heading for the hills. And Americans sold $50 billion worth of equity mutual funds in February and March of 2009. About $100 billion into the meltdown, you know, they zigged when they should have been sagging.

What I saw yesterday was intriguing because it was a low volume day. But also, what no one is talking about is the fed took away some liquidity yesterday at 1:30. Now, remember, a lot of people particularly professional traders think that this rally is all induced by the Federal Reserve because (INAUDIBLE) you know, the manipulation. Well, at some point they're going to take it away, perhaps in June. And that's the question mark hanging over the market. What happens when the fed takes away the punch bowl?

Yesterday, they took away a little bit at 1:30 and this market fell apart. So that's a little something pretty interesting although at some point it's like riding a bike, You have to take the training wheels off. This economy has to justify the stock market. Right now the market in my mind is justified by the global economy not the U.S. economy.

MCSHANE: It's also the fact that people have to pick; if they're going to invest in something, they have to pick an asset class to invest in right? And they're gauging stocks versus everything else that's out there, and you know, bonds are still -- you don't get much yield in them and maybe people are looking at it and saying, out of the bunch, stocks are still the best bet. Will that last?

PAYNE: I think it will last. Bonds have had an incredible run but we know interest rates are going to go up and then let's just expand that even further. If you say, ok, stocks, where do I want to invest in stocks?

MCSHANE: Right.

PAYNE: China and India, obviously the two hottest economies in the world but they're also battling serious inflation problems although I think China is oversold and India, too. You look at Europe, you know -- really, I mean honestly you're not going to invest in Europe.

So if you start talking about equities, then again, by default you could argue that the U.S. stock market. And that's what's happening. Mutual fund managers are putting money to work. Pension managers, fund managers, state fund managers -- they're putting money to work and the Federal Reserve has been working its manipulative magic as well. And almost by default, although I think our market is cheap.

JOSHI: Well, Charles we did not get to your stock picks and you always have great nuggets for us. We'll save those for the 9:20 show. You are hosting "VARNEY & COMPANY" today.

PAYNE: I hope the show is still there when it gets back because we're going to rock and roll today.

(CROSSTALK)

MCSHANE: We'll keep you going until then. Thanks, man.

PAYNE: Thanks.

JOSHI: -- the experience that is Charles Payne will be up in a couple of hours. We're happy to have you here.

PAYNE: Same here. Thanks a lot.

JOSHI: All right. Coming up we have a lot more coming up in today's show. We're going to be continuing to keep our eyes on the market as well as the day's top stories; lots of stuff happening with Apple and General Electric and lots more. Of course, we'll continue to follow the situations in Libya, Japan, Washington, D.C.

We are all over it right here live on the Fox Business Network.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

SHIBANI JOSHI, FOX BUSINESS NETWORK ANCHOR: In an address to the nation last night, President Obama strongly defended his decision to bomb targets in Libya, saying failure to act would have led to the slaughter of thousands of Libyan civilians. The president also reiterated that while Moammar Gadhafi must go, the Libyan is not being targeted in the attack. But there are still a number of unanswered questions this morning as the fighting between Gadhafi's forces and the rebels continue to intensify.

Meanwhile, in Japan, the news just -- just keeps getting worse at that troubled nuclear plant. Traces of plutonium, one of the world's most dangerous substances has turned up in the soil around the facility and radioactive water continues to leak from at least two of the six reactors. Japanese officials are now looking to expand the exclusion zone which would mean the immediate evaluation of an additional 130,000 people in what is already one of the worst nuclear disasters in history.

A very busy Tuesday morning. Welcome everyone. I'm Shibani Joshi joined by Connell McShane on this again, busy day. We've got lots to look forward to, again, with the market action and oil.

CONNELL MCSHANE, FOX BUSINESS NETWORK ANCHOR: Yes.

JOSHI: And what's happening abroad.

MCSHANE: And speaking, there's the oil price coming down with -- well, no big headlines coming out of Libya today that would lead oil to go higher. The president's speech last night, of course, which we'll talk about and stock index futures are up. We also what Shibani mentioned what's happening in Japan, a couple of more earthquakes coming in from Japan. One a 6.3 magnitude quake just off the coast of Honshu in Japan. So that's about 180 miles from Tokyo or 100 miles from Fukushima. And the other one was a little over 5 magnitude, 5.2, 5.2 magnitude.

JOSHI: Unfortunately, that situation does not seem to be settling.

MCSHANE: Yes. It's becoming almost routine, you're right.

JOSHI: We'll bring you the updates on that, but we turn to one of our top stories this morning.

President Obama addresses the nation last night in which he defended U.S. military action in Libya. Our own Rich Edson is standing by in our D.C. bureau with more on what the president had to say.

And, Rich, what a lot of people are saying he did not say, right?

RICH EDSON, FOX BUSINESS NETWORK CORRESPONDENT: That's right. And this is all in the context now. We have Secretary of State Hillary Clinton meeting with a representative from the Libyan opposition in London. Other nations from this international coalition are also in London meeting. The senior administration official says the U.S. envoy will soon travel to Benghazi to meet with opposition leaders to increase practical connections, face-to-face. The official says the United States has not made a decision on whether to help arm the rebels. This is a day after the president addressed the nation, saying at this moment in that country, it is appropriate for the United States to act, refusing to wait for the images of slaughter and mass graves.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We knew that if we wanted -- if we waited one more day, Benghazi, the city nearly the size of Charlotte, would suffer a massacre that would have reverberated across the region and stained the conscience of the world. It was not in our national interest to let that happen. I refused to let that happen.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

EDSON: Republican leaders point out the president failed to outline how much his administration is willing to spend and how long it is willing to fight in Libya. The president's 2008 opponent, Senator John McCain, says this intervention was both right and necessary. Others, like chairman Mike Rogers of the Select Intelligence Committee says he still has questions about how far we're willing to go when it comes to removing Gadhafi from power. What are we willing to do to ensure that we don't end up creating a stalemate and a failed state in Libya?

Shibani, back to you.

JOSHI: All right. Thanks, Rich. We're going to have more of your dissection and analysis throughout the day today. We want to bring you the latest on what's happening on the ground.

In Libya now, Moammar Gadhafi's inner circle may be cracking according to U.S. intelligence. His top military officials are reportedly wondering whether Gadhafi can survive and even remain in power. And morale amongst his troops is also reportedly very low, but those troops are also pushing back the rebels this morning, using heavy artillery. Libyan forces fending off an attack on Gadhafi's hometown of Sirte.

And Japan is on maximum alert to control the current nuclear crisis. The prime minister calling the situation the worst problem that that country has faced since World War II. But many are criticizing him for his handling of the disaster and pushing him to expand the evacuation zone around the nuclear plant which could impact up to 130,000 Japanese citizens there.

Meanwhile, plutonium discovered in the soil at the Fukushima plant is causing worry. It was found at low risk levels and some tests at the facility, but plutonium is highly carcinogenic and one of the most dangerous substance on the planet, according to experts.

And Syria's government will resign today, according to a top official there, and a new cabinet will be named within the next 24 hours. Meanwhile, supporters of President Assad pouring in to Damascus today. The main square is blocked off by police after anti-Assad protests. There have been reports of Syrian forces opening fire on those protesters as well.

MCSHANE: All right. Some big business headlines here this morning, Shibani, as well, including General Electric making other energy related acquisitions. It's buying a 90 percent stake in Converteam, $3.2 billion deal for GE. Now this company, Converteam, makes power conversion systems, so the GE stock price, well, it looks like it will open pretty close to where it closed yesterday according to that indication. GE may buy the rest of the company over the next two to five years. And right now, the stock, 19.70 is the bid on it in pre-market trading.

Then there's Nokia filing another patent infringement complaint against Apple. The Apple stock price may be down a little bit. The company, Nokia, alleging virtually all of Apple's products, including iPhones and iPads violate its patents. Now seven patents included in the new complaint. Nokis says its innovations are being used by Apple for key product features like data synchronization and multitasking operating system. So note the story that we're following for you.

And then there's Lululemon announcing a two for one stock split after the closing bell last night. So that will be a stock to watch as it jumped on the news with an afterhours chart of Lululemon up above 86.

Now the athletic apparel maker is a company to watch. Today, the move still will be approved or has to be approved by shareholders, who are going to have a vote on it at their annual meeting set to take place on the 8th of June. Just over the past year, the shares of that stock have doubled. So, that's one that's been up a lot already.

Let's now check the weather for you and Maria Molina is standing by in the FOX Business Weather Center with the forecast.

Good morning, again, Maria.

MARIA MOLINA, FOX BUSINESS WEATHER: Good morning, again, Connell.

We do have a storm system that's developing across the center of the country and right now, not a lot going on across eastern Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi, but later today, as some of that moisture combined with daytime heating fires up, we're going to see some of those thunderstorms and severe weather threat later on.

Some of that moisture does encounter the cooler air to parts of the Midwest. We are seeing some snow across parts of eastern Iowa into Illinois and even a freezing rain advisory that has been issued out across south central Nebraska, so we're going to watch out for slippery conditions for the morning commute -- Connell.

MCSHANE: All right. Maria, thank you for that.

We still have Chris Cotter from the FOX Business Network coming up and we'll also get to Juan Williams. Still ahead here this morning, Mike Emanuel from FOX News. All that and more coming up as the IMUS IN THE MORNING program continues on FOX Business.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

IMUS: Please welcome now to the IMUS IN THE MORNING program, our old friend Steve Schirripa.

STEVE SCHIRRIPA, ACTOR: Hey, pal, how are you?

IMUS: From "The Sopranos" and a bunch of other stuff since then.

SCHIRRIPA: Yes. Everything is going on right.

IMUS: How are you? You look good.

SCHIRRIPA: I'm doing all right. Everything is pretty good.

IMUS: So what are you doing now?

SCHIRRIPA: I've got a new show starting, which I'm executive producing and hosting. It's called "Nothing Personal." It's on ID Discovery and it's about hit men. It's about the mind of a hit man and what makes them tick. And there's one mob thing, but then there's a story about a wife who hired a hit man to kill her husband and then a hit man to kill the hit man. And then there's -- we have another story about two -- a 13 and a 16-year-old --

IMUS: Was she able to -- was she able to hire a hit man to hit --

SCHIRRIPA: She got a hit man to hire a hit man, absolutely. And then there's a 13 and 16 --

IMUS: Did he carry it through?

SCHIRRIPA: Carried it through.

IMUS: Oh, yes.

SCHIRRIPA: Incredible stories that you haven't heard much of, you know.

IMUS: To think the hit man would be on the lookout.

SCHIRRIPA: Well, the thing is they're not -- like I said the first story we have is a mob hit man. The rest of them are guys that agreed to do hits for money. And it's just incredible. These kids, 13 and 16 from Laredo, Texas, killed over 50 people. 13 years old. They worked for the Mexican drug cartel and we have them on camera talking about the hits.

I mean, so, we did the show. We did six episodes. It starts 10:00 on ID Discovery. I think it's really, really good stuff. I mean, most of the stories you haven't seen before. We put a different spin on it and I've been working on it now, a year and a half and it's finally, we're going to see it and I think it's really good.

IMUS: And what's this movie you're in?

SCHIRRIPA: Called "Kill the Irishman."

IMUS: It's being advertised everywhere.

SCHIRRIPA: Yes, it's about a real mobster, Irish guy, Danny Greene in the `60s and '70s. Never went to school, a brilliant guy, he ran the head of the union at 28 years old. A brilliant guy and he's from Cleveland and he gets involved with the New York mob and they try to kill him and blah blah blah and it takes -- he's a real sharp guy. Really, a guy that's obviously a bad guy, but kind of a good guy. And there's a great cast. Christopher Walken, and Val Kilmer and Vinny D'Onofrio and Ray Stevenson, Tony Lo Bianco. I mean, on and on. We shot it in Detroit which doubled for Cleveland and it was great working with Walken.

IMUS: It's because they're similar. Why would you -- why would you shoot it in Detroit and not Cleveland?

SCHIRRIPA: Because they do -- you know, Michigan has a huge tax break.

IMUS: Oh.

SCHIRRIPA: And we shot in Detroit, which is really a shame that this country would let a city like that go in the dumper. And look, you had all kind of tough guys and tough guy actors. We couldn't go out in the day. You had to worry and I'm not lying. I'm not lying. In the daytime, the Red Sox were staying in the hotel downtown Cleveland and Terry Francona almost got mugged in the afternoon, the manager. I'm telling you, it was rough there in Detroit. Three houses on the block.

IMUS: You said Cleveland. You mean --

SCHIRRIPA: It doubled for Cleveland. So, you know, I tell you what's funny. Walken, Christopher Walken, who I had never met, you know --

IMUS: Yes.

SCHIRRIPA: Who came to the set we were shooting a scene, he wasn't in it. And he comes up and he's like wearing his pants, like up here like to his chest literally, and he doesn't wear a belt, he's wearing a rope and has a rope tied around his pants. And this woman came out of the house and she said, you know, I live on the house and my house is kind of the party spot. There's three houses on the block, you know.

IMUS: Yes.

SCHIRRIPA: It wasn't -- and she says, if you need anything, you want a drink, you want to use the bathroom, just come in. She's telling Christopher Walken. And I can't do his voice, but he goes, would you make me a tuna fish sandwich if I asked. Dead serious.

SCHIRRIPA: You know, the lady took him serious. He was obviously joking. He said could you make a tuna fish sandwich something nice on toast. He's a funny guy, good guy.

IMUS: Charlie Sheen, what do you think of that? Did you ever meet him in Vegas when you were in Vegas?

SCHIRRIPA: Yes -- no, no, no, I met him -- I met him. I did "The Tonight Show" with him and couldn't have been a nicer guy.

IMUS: Yes.

SCHIRRIPA: He came into my dressing room. I had gone on before and he was -- he's a good guy and a friend of mine was his stunt double and he bought him a motorcycle. He's a very generous guy.

IMUS: Yes.

SCHIRRIPA: Obviously, he's got some problems here, big problems, and I'm concerned that this is going to end bad, you know what I mean? I mean, I just don't know where you go here. I don't know if he's cracking jokes. You know, and look, he did it to himself. Don't get me wrong. I mean, but --

IMUS: It was funny for a few days.

SCHIRRIPA: It was funny. I mean -- you know, some say his father is going to change his name back to Estevez. You know what I mean? And look, if Snooki joins the posse, I mean, I'm out of here. That's it.

IMUS: Yes.

SCHIRRIPA: You know what I'm saying?

IMUS: Do you ever go back to Vegas?

SCHIRRIPA: I was in Vegas last week.

IMUS: What did you do there before?

SCHIRRIPA: I was entertainment director at the Riviera. I've got to tell you in Vegas, they have just gone out. I was at this huge charity event which does great work for Alzheimer's, Cleveland Clinic, it's fantastic. He's a friend of mine, Larry Ruvo (ph). I go there. Huge event. I was sitting next to Teri Hatcher. You know this broad (ph) from "Desperate Housewives." You know this woman?

IMUS: I know who she is.

SCHIRRIPA: She thinks who the hell she is, you know. You know, I'm sitting next to her.

IMUS: Yes.

SCHIRRIPA: So the dinner comes, I got a dinner roll, I eat the first one. She's right next to me, doesn't acknowledge me like I'm like a piece of --

IMUS: Doesn't even know who you are?

SCHIRRIPA: She makes believe she doesn't know who I am. I mean, they announce me, I got up. They clapped. You know, I mean --

IMUS: Of course.

SCHIRRIPA: And there's a little --

IMUS: And you're as big a deal as she is.

SCHIRRIPA: Danny DeVito is there. Chance Pometeri (ph) is there, a terrific guy. All these guys are there. She doesn't -- she don't know me. I'm on the pay no mind list. So the girl next to her who she's with, leans over and says, if you're not going to eat that dinner roll, could Teri have it?

Now, Teri is right next to me, man.

(LAUGHTER)

So I say, sure. I mean, I had one already so I pick up the plate with the roll and I hand it over Teri to give it to the girl.

IMUS: Yes.

SCHIRRIPA: And then I say, I wait a few minutes and I go, does Teri want any butter?

(LAUGHTER)

And if I'm lying I'm dying, right? And then a couple minutes later, the friend says Teri said thank you very much.

I said well, you thank her for me. She's right here and she's kind of looking that way like she's not involved. And then they're gone hog wild with the --

IMUS: What was that all about?

SCHIRRIPA: I really don't know. I think she's out of her mind. Charlie Sheen calls her crazy. That's why.

(LAUGHTER)

Now, Vegas has gone hog wild with this plastic surgery.

IMUS: Yes.

SCHIRRIPA: They just -- I go in to this thing, there's all rich people, and they look like burn victims -- the wives, you know. So there's a guy in Vegas, I'm in the restaurant. He's wearing a toupee.

IMUS: Sure.

SCHIRRIPA: And now all these older guys dye their hair and, you know, they dye their eyebrows. The guy is 70. He's got red hair and red eyebrows. He looks like carrot top, the guy is 70 years old.

(LAUGHTER)

So -- all right. So, the guy, it's hot in the restaurant, I don't know. There's something up. The guy is at another table.

IMUS: Yes.

SCHIRRIPA: And I said, I said look, I tell my friend, I said look at the toupee. I mean, it looked like a hat. You know what I mean? It was a real bad one. Then all of a sudden, it's hot in there and he's dripping, something is dripping down, you know. And it looks like blood. It's like brownish -- I'm going, is the guy bleeding? And it's obvious, it must be the glue from the toupee because it's hot in there. So the glue is coming down, he's got this hat on his head. Somebody tells him, you're dripping. He picks up the napkin. He starts wiping his head off. Now he's got lint.

(LAUGHTER)

So he's got the -- I can't believe what I'm seeing here, man.

(LAUGHTER)

(END VIDEOTAPE)

MCSHANE: He's good. I was telling you the Teri Hatcher -- the Teri Hatcher story is funny.

JOSHI: Yes, it is funny.

MCSHANE: Very funny.

JOSHI: Like the bread.

MCSHANE: All right.

JOSHI: Lots more to look forward to today. Chris Cotter is coming up. Did you pick VCU to be in your final four?

MCSHANE: Yes.

JOSHI: It's 100 bucks on that bet. You could be $90,000 richer. He's going to talk about the betting side of all of our busted brackets. Stay tuned for that. And don't miss tomorrow's show. We're going to have radio talk show host Michael Ingram, political commentator Imogen Lloyd Webber. He is always great and controversial. And from FOX News, Bret Baier will also be here. And all tomorrow morning starting at 6:00 a.m. we're going to be here throughout the week on FOX Business, giving you the power to prosper.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

MCSHANE: We're back here on IMUS IN THE MORNING ahead of the open on Wall Street. Connell McShane along with Shibani Joshi this morning.

We're talking about a $3 billion deal that GE is making. Another energy related acquisition, buying a 90 percent stake of Converteam which is the company that makes power conversion systems. GE 19.71 in the bid in the pre-market. It may buy, GE may, the rest of the company over the next two to five years. So we'll keep an eye on the stock as we get closer to the opening bell. By the way, stock index futures are a little bit higher ahead of that opening bell on Wall Street. The oil price is at 103 and change. So that's where we stand in the market right now. 103.24.

All right, Chris Cotter, you know him from hosting the 1:00 Eastern Time program here on FOX Business along with Lori Rothman.

CHRIS COTTER, FOX BUSINESS: And that is just being a smart alec over there.

MCSHANE: And he joins us now to talk about gambling of course.

Good morning, Chris. How are you?

COTTER: If it's not one vice, it's another.

Right. You know what, I've got to tell you, it's very interesting. It was -- the brackets are completely blown out. I mean, Kansas, they had Ohio state, so they're looking at this, thinking on the $5 I paid for the office pool is you know, down the drain.

Well, they were smart, and not very many people have been smart when it comes to this tournament. They could be $90,000 richer. I heard you going into the tease, Shibani saying if you had $100 --

JOSHI: Yes.

COTTER: -- and you bet the money line on VCU. And each game, meaning in the first game, they paid out $175 on a $100 bet. The Kansas game, for example, their last win they paid out $671 for a $100 bet. So, all the money you had made up to that point, you laid it all on VCU and it paid out 671. So that's why you would be $90,000 richer today from that $100.

JOSHI: The hindsight is 20/20.

COTTER: 20/20, isn't that funny?

JOSHI: Right.

COTTER: It's actually bad for the casinos though, because they -- you know, people tend to bet favorites and tend to bet overs.

JOSHI: Right.

COTTER: So they like it when the money is 50/50 on either side and more people bet favorites the more the line moves higher and then the more people still bet favorites and that's really good for the casinos. The Las Vegas Hilton, the director of sports betting there, Jay Kornegay, actually said they lost money on Sunday when VCU --

MCSHANE: Wow.

COTTER: And they rarely lose money. The house rarely loses money. They lost money on Sunday when VCU won. And he actually said, quote, "There's a bomb waiting for them at the end of the story if VCU goes all the way and wins the title. They're losing a lot of money.

JOSHI: So if you put 100 bucks on VCU and they win the championship, what do you think that you could walk away with?

COTTER: Well, now the odds obviously are a lot smaller.

JOSHI: Yes.

COTTER: VCU, I believe, and now, their 7-2, 7-1 to win the championship.

MCSHANE: Only four teams left.

COTTER: Exactly.

JOSHI: Right.

COTTER: So now you're not making a whole lot of money. The big money came in at the sweet 16 when they were eight -- I think they were 80-1, you had the sweet 16. So that's when people say, you know what, they were the last team to get in. The 68th team to get in at the beginning.

JOSHI: Yes.

COTTER: So not many people put money on them. But with 16 teams left, you got 80-1 odds they were worth a shot. So a lot more money came in.

MCSHANE: Take a flyer. All right.

This is what's interesting and you were just bringing this up before you came on with us, so let's talk absolutely it a little bit. So the 68 teams, right, in the field this year?

COTTER: Yes.

MCSHANE: You know, there's been a lot made of, you know, Dick Vitale from ESPN saying that VCU, and he's not the only one, shouldn't even made it into the field. So all this is saying, well, what if you would have bet on them at the beginning. But you could -- you didn't have to bet on them specifically. There were certain teams and they were one that didn't even get odds. How does that work?

COTTER: Of the 68 teams, 49 of them got individual odds.

MCSHANE: Right.

COTTER: Ohio State was probably the favorite going in. They were the number one overall seed. Maybe an 8-1 to win. Might have been a 50-1. So 49 teams got individual odds. Then the remaining 19 teams all got what they call a field play. Meaning that it was 200-1 bet that any one of those 19 teams was going to win it all. So while VCU if you look at them individually, they might have been, you know, varied from 800-1 to a 2,000- 1 odds to win it. You really only got paid 200 to one by the book if you get the field, anyone of those 19 --

MCSHANE: That would have been -- the one that's worth taking the flyer on.

JOSHI: Right. Absolutely.

MCSHANE: Because at least you get those teams up.

COTTER: More reasonable, yes.

JOSHI: With all the big guys out, Duke and UNC and all the big favorites, Kansas out, that's who my pick was, I'm out. What does it mean for CBS' ratings? I mean, could this actually be a negative thing considering you don't have the powerhouses in this final four?

COTTER: Yes. It's a little different from professional sports when you really want the big TV markets particularly in football.

MCSHANE: Right.

COTTER: They wanted New York and Chicago team in there, a Dallas and America's team Pittsburgh. They draw the big ratings in. For college football, it is about the Cinderella story, March Madness is about it. So on one side of the bracket, you have UConn and Kentucky, two powerhouses that speaks for itself. On the other side, you have the Cinderella story, VCU captures everybody's imagination. So I think they actually like it.

MCSHANE: I agree.

COTTER: And in general, if VCU loses, the sports books like it too because it does generate a lot of excitement and a lot of bet. They're going to rate well.

JOSHI: All right. Mental note, OK.

MCSHANE: Thanks, Cotter.

JOSHI: Fill that next year.

COTTER: It's worth laying down a couple of bucks on this little bet.

JOSHI: Yes. All right.

COTTER: We're not encouraging gambling by any stretch.

MCSHANE: Unless we win. Thank you, Cotter.

COTTER: Yes.

JOSHI: All right. We have much more coming up on IMUS IN THE MORNING. Stay tuned.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

SHIBANI JOSHI, FBN CORRESPONDENT: In an address to the nation last night, President Obama strong defended his decision to bomb targets in Libya, saying failure to act would have lead to the slaughter of thousands of Libyan civilians. The president also reiterated that while Moammar Gadhafi must go, the Libyan leader is not being targeted in the attacks. But there are still a number of unanswered questions this morning as the fighting between Gadhafi's forces and the rebels continues to intensify.

Meanwhile, over to Japan now. The news just keeps getting worse at that troubled nuclear plant. Traces of plutonium, one of the world's most dangerous substances, has turned up in the soil around the facility and radioactive water continues to leak from at least two of the six reactors. Japanese officials are now looking to expand the exclusion zone, which could mean the immediate evacuation of an additional 130,000 people in what is already one of the worst nuclear disasters in history.

Good morning, everyone, I'm Shibani Joshi, in with Connell McShane. That Japanese story we continue to follow, what's happening there. What's happening in Libya. And, of course, how it affects your money. We're paying attention to all of those things.

CONNELL MCSHANE, FBN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, and we had a couple more earthquakes, as you look at the oil price at $103 and change this morning. It's coming down. We'll have the latest from Libya in a live report in just a moment.

A couple more earthquakes in Japan. One, a 6.3 magnitude quake, which was just off of Honshu, Japan. And that was about 180 miles from Tokyo or 100 miles from Fukushima, give or take. The stock index futures are up this morning. The other was a 5.2 magnitude quake off the southwest, on one of the islands in Japan. So we have all of that going on.

Now, in terms of what's coming up in this hour, we'll have Juan Williams from Fox News. He'll be just ahead in just a moment. Also, Mike Emanuel will join us live, White House correspondent for the Fox News Channel, and he will come on to analyze the -- give us his analysis of the president's speech last night and what the next plan is for the White House.

But, meantime, we'll talk about that right now as the address to the nation from the president in which he defended military action in Libya. Rich Edson's in the D.C. bureau with more on what the president had to say last night.

And, Rich, good morning to you.

RICH EDSON, FBN CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Connell.

Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has just wrapped her meeting with a representative from the Libyan opposition in London. She's now meetings with other nations from this international coalition. A senior administration official says the United States has not yet made a decision on whether to help arm those Libyan rebels.

Last night, amid criticism from top Republicans, President Obama laid out why the United States is fighting in Libya.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I made it clear that Gadhafi had lost the confidence of his people and the legitimacy to lead. And I said that he needed to step down from power. In the face of the world's condemnation, Gadhafi chose to escalate his attacks, launching a military campaign against the Libyan people. Innocent people were targeted for killing.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

EDSON: After a lengthy speech on why, the president gave few specifics how much it will cost and how long the United States is committed. To that, House Speaker John Boehner says, "nine days into this military intervention, Americans still have no answer to the fundamental question, what does success in Libya looks like?" President Obama says he wants Gadhafi to go and he'll use international diplomacy to achieve that.

Connell.

MCSHANE: Rich Edson in D.C.

Meanwhile, on the ground in Libya today, the fighting continues between the pro-Gadhafi forces and the rebels. And there's word the U.S. may soon be sending an envoy, as Rich talked about, to Libya to meet with rebel leaders. Rick Leventhal, Fox News, is in Ras Lanuf, Libya, this morning with the latest from there.

Which is what, Rick? How are the rebels doing in their advance?

RICK LEVENTHAL, FBN CORRESPONDENT: Well, they're still in control of Ras Lanuf, home to a massive oil refining facility. You can see a pretty active checkpoint behind me as fighters and supporters continue to stream to the west, towards the town of Ben Jawad, which is apparently the current front line in this conflict. Some of the vehicles that pass us are mounted with those guns, the heavy machine guns in the back. Others are filled with mattresses and supplies, including juice and water for the fighters who continue to slug it out, Connell.

As you know, yesterday, we reported that they had reached the town of Sirte, or the outskirts of Sirte, which is Gadhafi's hometown. But the Gadhafi troops are dug in there and were repelling with opposition fighters with artillery and tank fire. There were deaths, there were injuries yesterday among the opposition fighters. We saw some of them being treated at a hospital here in Ras Lanuf.

And they have retreated to the town of Ben Jawad, as I mentioned, which is about 30 miles to our west. But they do continue to fight. They say they continue to stream towards the front line and continue to try and test Gadhafi's forces. But they admit that without air support, without jet strikes on Gadhafi's tanks and artillery, they really can't push much further.

So the battle on the ground here continues, Connell. It's kind of like Groundhog Day. Every day they're slugging it out with Gadhafi's troops and sometimes they advance and sometimes they retreat, but they continue to slug it out.

MCSHANE: So what will they do next? I mean I don't know if you have any insight into the strategy of these rebel groups, but is it likely, Rick, that they'll just wait now where those front lines are and allow the allied air strikes to continue and do more damage against Gadhafi's forces before they advance more? Might we see a little bit of a wait and see here for a few days or no?

LEVENTHAL: Well, we -- what we expect is what we've been seeing, which is that they will test Gadhafi's troops. They will try to flank them, try and take shots at them. And they will hold off as long as they can and wait for air strikes. Because as soon as -- if jet strikes do come, as soon as they hit those tanks and artillery positions, what we've seen is that the Gadhafi troops then retreat and that allows these opposition fighters to move even further, closer to Misurata, and closer ultimately to Tripoli, Connell.

JOSHI: Rick, this is Shibani Joshi here. A quick question. You know, Sirte was often perceived as a gateway to more attacks in Tripoli. Now with a little bit of a retrenchment in Sirte, what does this mean for the threat of what's happening, what could happen in Tripoli?

LEVENTHAL: Well, you know, Tripoli is Gadhafi's stronghold, of course. It's been getting pounded by air strikes. We aren't hearing about battles in the streets there like we are in many of these other towns. Certainly Misurata, just east of Tripoli, is still a battle zone. We have reports from people who went into Misurata that it looked like Fallujah there. That it had been, in many cases, flattened and that there were running battles in the streets between tanks and troops and opposition fighters who are retaking control of key areas, including the town center and the port and then giving it back as these battles continue.

Again, Shibani and Connell, the key here is air strikes. If they get the support from the skies, they can make ground on the ground. But without the help from above, they really are -- they don't have an answer for Gadhafi's armor.

MCSHANE: All right, Rick Leventhal live from Ras Lanuf in Libya. Thanks, Rick.

We're going to move to Japan now, where things continue at that nuclear power plant, at least, to get worse. Traces of plutonium turning up in the soil around the facility and the radioactive water continues to leak there. So, for more coverage of that, we bring in Fox News Radio correspondent Mike Tuggle. He's in Japan and joins us now with the very latest.

What's going on up there at Fukushima in terms of this plutonium situation?

MIKE TUGGLE, FOX NEWS RADIO CORRESPONDENT (via telephone): Well, Connell, the plutonium, they've decided, is leaking from the damaged reactor number three. Now, that comes from the Tokyo Electric Power Company. Officials say that the levels that have been coming out so far have been so minute that they do not pose a serious health risk. So the workers are continuing to do what they've been doing, which is trying to cool down those reactors.

The difference is that they absolutely are sure that there has been at least a partial meltdown in reactor number three because that's why they've been able to find the plutonium. This comes as Japan's prime minister says this is the country's worst disaster since World War II and that the country is on maximum alert.

MCSHANE: The reports we were having -- we were getting from there, Mike, was that there was some pressure being put on Prime Minister Kan to expand that evacuation zone around the plant because of these plutonium leaks. Is that not true or is that being considered?

TUGGLE: Well, pressure has been put on Kan to expand this evacuation zone from the very beginning. The Japanese have a 12 mile evacuation zone and then they're asking people between 12 and 19 miles to take shelter. The U.S. embassy says that you shouldn't be within 50 miles of the Fukushima reactors.

What's happening now is that the Japanese government does have people on the ground trying to get people to move out of that 12 to 19 mile range, but it's just like what happens with wildfires in California. Some people will say they just will not move.

JOSHI: Mike, Tepco shares -- it's a publicly traded company there -- are at something like a 40 year low. There's lots of rumblings that the government is trying to nationalize the public utility there. What's the latest on that and do you think this is maybe a misguided attempt to kind of deflect some of the criticism that the government has been getting for not handling the crisis appropriately?

TUGGLE: Well, the sense that you get on the ground, excuse me, is that the government has actually been trying to do the best that it can. But Tepco - - they're having to go through Tepco to get that information. And that it is Tepco that continues not to give information quickly or accurately. So there is this discussion about whether to nationalize that the power company and that's because people think that their government could do a better job than Tepco has done.

MCSHANE: All right, Mike Tuggle, Fox News Radio, live from Tokyo with this. Thank you, Mike.

JOSHI: And now time for a look at today's top business stories.

The Supreme Court will take on a huge sex discrimination suit against Wal- Mart. The court will decide if the case can proceed as a class action suit. If so, the case will go back to a lower court with maybe as many as 1.5 million female employees as plaintiffs. They claim Wal-Mart favors men over women in pay and promotions. The Supreme Court's decision will likely take a few months to reach.

And General Electric making another energy related acquisition, announcing this morning that the company is buying a 90 percent stake in a company called Converteam for a price tag of $3.2 billion. Converteam makes power conversion systems. GE may buy the rest of the company over the next two to five years. Right now GE shares pretty flat, trading slightly lower ahead of the open in about an hour.

And the price tag is in. The last year's financial overhaul will cost nearly $1 billion to implement. According to the Associated Press, not much of the money is actually coming from taxpayers, but it's all relative, of course. Eleven agencies will pay $974 million to hire employees and other costs associated with carrying out that very costly and cumbersome legislation.

And Ally Financial is reportedly close to filing for its initial public offering. According to Reuters, the paperwork is expected to be filed over the next couple of weeks. The stock offering will ultimately raise between $6 billion and $7 billion for the bank, but the filing will be a smaller amount -- will be for a smaller amount. Ally's IPO would allow the government to start selling its majority stake in that company.

MCSHANE: All right, let's get a check of the weather for you now and we have Maria Molina in the Fox Business Weather Center with that.

Good morning, Maria.

MARIA MOLINA, FOX BUSINESS METEOROLOGIST: Good morning, Connell.

We do want to take a look at the weather and how it will impact your travel. And across the northeast, I don't think we'll have any weather related delays. The only problem will be those cold temperatures. Highs again below average. Forty-five will be your high in New York City. Detroit, also below average with highs in the mid 40's.

And as we head westward, Dallas, that's where I do think we'll see some problems. You'll have some thunderstorms starting to develop, especially later on this afternoon. And in Seattle throughout much of the day, you're going to encounter mostly cloudy skies and several showers lingering around.

Connell.

MCSHANE: All right, Maria, thank you for that.

Mike Emanuel, White House correspondent for Fox News, is straight ahead as the IMUS IN THE MORNING program continues right now here on Fox Business.

(JUAN WILLIAMS INTERVIEW REPLAY)

JOSHI: Another great interview out of Juan Williams.

Taking a look at the markets today. We are about an hour and 10 minutes away from the market open on this Tuesday morning. We're actually looking for a slightly higher open this morning. We've got some good M&A news coming out of General Electric. Nokia getting Apple involved in a patent suit. Not really having an impact on Apple shares. We're watching that.

And don't go anywhere. Coming up after the break, we're going to hear from Fox News White House correspondent Mike Emanuel about the latest. And, of course, we're going to continue to watch the top business stories coming up right here on IMUS IN THE MORNING program on Fox Business.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

JOSHI: Welcome back to IMUS IN THE MORNING. It's 8:25 in the East, 5:25 in the West. We're going to start off with a look at the markets ahead of the open at 9:30 Eastern Time. We're looking at futures, which are modestly higher this morning. Oil prices allowing some breathing room for the stock market. We're seeing another pushback in crude oil prices, down about 83 cents a barrel, as we're hearing news that OPEC countries are going to make up for the supply shortfalls that are happening in Libya. So we're watching that.

Also, we're also watching shares of Lululemon today. The athletic wear company announcing a two for one stock split after the closing bell yesterday. Shares are jumping on that news in pre-market trading. The move still needs to be approved by the company's shareholders and they'll vote on that at the annual meeting on June 8th. But Lululemon has been a hot stock. If you've had that stock for a year, you've seen a nice double of your money in the last 52 weeks.

And amazon.com looking to become more than just your average retailer. The company unveiling two new services, allowing customers to store music in the cloud, videos and photos. You can access them on its servers anywhere that you may reside. Amazon says users will be able to play music on any android device, PC or even a Mac. Shares of Amazon are slightly higher ahead of the open this morning.

And Nokia battling it out with Apple yet again, filing another patent infringement complaint against the tech giant. The company alleges that virtually all of Apples' products, including iPhones and iPads, violate Nokia's patents. Seven patents are included in the new complaint. Nokia says its innovations are now being used by Apple for key product features, like data syncrinization and multitasking operating systems. In total, there are about 47 patents that Nokia alleges apple is violating.

And returning to one of our top stories this morning. The president addressing the nation last night on the situation in Libya. Joining us right now on the phone is Fox News White House correspondent Mike Emanuel.

Good morning, Mike.

So, a lot ever criticism and a lot of talk about what the president had to say and didn't have to say last night.

MIKE EMANUEL, FBN CORRESPONDENT (via telephone): Shibani, good morning.

Yes, very interesting fallout from the speech, or reaction to the speech. Some Democrats saying that they were happy to hear the president make his case, that on -- for humanitarian reasons it was the right thing to do to go into Libya. Some are questioning what the cost is going to be of all of this. We heard Speaker John Boehner's team quickly respond, saying the president did not clearly define what victory is in Libya. And so there are a lot of questions and there are a lot of smart people who are saying it is not entirely clear how Libya plays out because there is a possibility of a stalemate there. If that is the case, what is the cost going to be to the American taxpayer and what do we do to get ourselves out of there at some point.

MCSHANE: I don't know if there's a conventional wisdom in all of this, Mike, but it would seem that, you know, to your earlier point there, that a lot of people are looking at this and saying, yes, Mr. President, you really made a strong case as to why we went into Libya, but you did not define victory. When you bring that question to the White House, you know, afterwards or even before the speech, what do they say to that?

EMANUEL: Well, I believe, you know, the president's doing more interviews today. He is doing -- sitting down with the three network anchors. And so my guess is, he will get that question and we'll have a carefully crafted answer to that.

Bottom line is, he went up there last night -- I was in the room during the speech -- and said, I promised you the American leadership would be days not weeks and essentially said, I delivered on my promise. But there are a lot of people who are saying, you know, who are these opposition rebels that we are trying to, in effect, help? A lot of concerns about whether some of those fighters may have ties to al Qaeda. Who are we considering arming? We know some of our allies are considering giving arms to the rebels. The United States is considering it at this point.

So, you know, there's still a lot of question marks. And if this lingers for some time, there are questions about the impact this will have on the 2012 election when there's a lot of war fatigue in the United States with wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and now perhaps a third one that may or may not drag on in Libya.

JOSHI: Absolutely. War fatigue is a good way of putting it and certainly a big concern ahead of the big elections in 2012, Mike. You know, one of the things that the president has the tendency to do is to come out very -- I don't think, you know, a lot of people are very surprised he didn't come out and say that this isn't a full-fledged war and didn't really reveal the cards, but do we think that the president will sort of unveil and unravel the strategy over time or is this something that's going to continue to be a mystery and everyone's going to have to try and figure out as the situation develops?

EMANUEL: Shibani, I think clearly his advisors are hoping that the U.S. and its allies can find a way for Moammar Gadhafi to go and go soon. He did not, obviously, commit to regime change, saying how expensive that is and, you know, a lot of Americans would likely agree with that.

And with our debt and deficit concerns, would worry about cost of regime change in Libya. But clearly, they're trying to find other ways without using force to push Moammar Gadhafi to go and have as clean a transfer as possible, but what if Gadhafi digs in?

That's what a lot of people are worried about at this point so as some very smart people like Michael O'Hanlon at Brookings Institute says, there's a lot of unknowns out there and there is a real possibility of stalemate.

And so that has to be what gives this president and his key advisors anxiety as they try to figure out where things go in Libya.

CONNELL MCSHANE, ANCHOR: You know, it's interesting, I was just looking at my computer screen, Mike. We're talking to Mike Emanuel, White House correspondent for Fox News here on IMUS IN THE MORNING.

And Senator John McCain while the three of us were speaking on Twitter the president made a good case for U.S. involvement in Libya, but I believe the U.S. must remain strongly engaged to force Gadhafi to leave power.

So that's almost to your point of are we hoping to get lucky and he's going to leave power or a strategy to make him leave power.

EMANUEL: Well, exactly and you know, there are questions about how far NATO will be willing to go. The president says NATO takes control on Wednesday and a lot of people that's great. The United States is not bearing the burden of this operation, but the question how far is NATO willing to go?

A lot of people say that the sharpest tip of the spear is the United States and if we want to push something we can, but some of our NATO allies are not as firm and strong in those regards. So, still a lot of unknowns today.

But as I mentioned the president will go out and do some interviews with network anchors so we'll get probably the next step of his thoughts in interviews throughout the course of the day.

MCSHANE: All right, Mike, thank you very much. And we have some breaking news coming across. Mike Emanuel, Fox News at the White House.

You saw at the bottom of your screen while Mike was talking that now there's a report out from Fox News that NATO is delaying taking command of the Libyan mission. Don't know much more about that than what we just told you so we'll fill in the blanks.

SHIBANI JOSHI, ANCHOR: Indeed.

MCSHANE: Could be, we'll fill on the blanks on that as we continue. Again, we're going to be live all week long here on IMUS IN THE MORNING.

A great lineup of guests, just a quick reminder on that. Judge Napolitano is going to be on with us. Geraldo will be on with us. Sean Hannity is coming on. John Bolton as well, former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. We'll be right back this morning after a quick break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MCSHANE (voice-over): Well, there's news breaking this morning. We told you about it moments ago, NATO reportedly delaying taking over the mission in Libya. The word came out just a few minutes ago and it comes on the heels of last night's address by President Obama, strongly defending his decision to bomb Libya.

Saying failure to act there would have led to a slaughter of thousands of Libyan civilians. The president also reiterated while Moammar Gadhafi must go, the Libyan leader not the targeted in attacks. But again now there are maybe even more unanswered questions this morning.

And the fighting meantime continues between the Gadhafi forces and rebels so we're following that situation with NATO reportedly delaying takeover of the mission.

Meanwhile, in Japan, the news keeps getting worse at that troubled nuclear plant. Traces of plutonium, one of the world's most dangerous substances have turned up in the soil around the facility and radioactive water continues to leak from at least two of the six reactors.

Japanese officials now looking to expand the exclusion zone, which would be an immediate evaluation of additional 130,000 people if they go this that direction in what is one of the worst nuclear disasters we've ever seen in the world.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MCSHANE: So we have all of that breaking this morning. We continue to follow it on IMUS IN THE MORNING. I'm Connell McShane along with Shibani Joshi. Thanks for joining us this morning. A lot to do.

JOSHI: Yes, certainly. We're continuing and paying attention what's happening in the markets, but our top story this morning.

President Obama's address to the nation last night in which he defended U.S. military action in Libya. Our own Rich Edson is standing by in our D.C. Bureau with more on what the president had to say.

Good morning, Rich, what is the reaction that people out there are having to last night's address?

RICH EDSON, FOX BUSINESS: Good morning, Shibani. There's plenty of news relating to Libya coming out right now. You just touched upon it, this report from AFP, a French news agency saying that NATO is going to delay its take offer of the Libyan operation, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, pushing that off.

That was supposed to happen, that transfer of power, from the United States military to NATO, was supposed to happen tomorrow, but all of these international talks continue. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is now in London discussing Libyan mission with the international coalition.

The secretary of state just meeting with her British counterpart following a meeting with the Libyan opposition. Senior administration official says the United States plans to soon send an envoy to Benghazi. Last night, President Obama justified U.S. action in Libya saying it helps avoid a massacre.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: I made it clear that Gadhafi had lost the confidence of his people and the legitimacy to lead and I said that he needed to step down from power.

In the face of the world's condemnation, Gadhafi chose to escalate his attacks, launching a military campaign against the Libyan people. Innocent people were targeted for killing.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

EDSON: After a lengthy speech on why the United States is in Libya, he gave few specifics on how much it will cost and how long the United States is committed.

Chairman Mike Rogers of the Select Intelligence Committee says he still has questions about how far we're willing to go when it comes to removing Gadhafi from power. What are we willing to do to ensure that we don't end up creating a stalemate and a failed state in Libya? Connell, Shibani, back to you.

JOSHI: Few specifics and lots of questions. Thanks for that, Rich Edson.

Now staying on the topic of Libya, Moammar Gadhafi's inner circle may be cracking. According to U.S. intelligence, his top military officials are reportedly wondering whether Gadhafi can even survive and remain in power.

His morale and like his troops is also very low, but those troops reportedly pushing back rebels this morning using heavy artillery. Libyan forces fending off an attack on Gadhafi's hometown of Sirte. The U.S. is also sending an envoy to meet rebels in Benghazi.

And Secretary of State Hillary Clinton will meet with a rebel leader in London today and an international conference getting underway, focusing on post-Gadhafi Libya.

And the latest in Japan now, Japan is on maximum alert to control the current nuclear crisis. The prime minister calling the situation the worst problem that the country had faced since World War II.

Earthquakes continue to hit the surrounding region, but many are criticizing him for his handling of the disaster and pushing him to expand the evacuation zone around the nuclear plant.

Meanwhile, plutonium discovered in the soil at the Fukushima plant surrounding the region. It was found at low risk levels in some test facilities, but plutonium is highly carcinogenic and one of the most dangerous substances on planet according to experts so we continue to watch the story unfold.

And Syria's government will resign according to top official there and a new cabinet will be named in the next day or so. Meanwhile, supporters of President Assad pouring into Damascus. Today, the main square is being blocked off by police after days of anti-Assad protests.

There have also been reports of Syrian forces opening fire on the protesters. So lots going on in the Middle East that we continue to see and watch and pay close attention to, obviously, for its impact on oil prices or more broadly.

MCSHANE: You're absolutely right. Oil is down a little bit this morning. In terms of the top business headlines that we're following for you this morning.

Financial regulators are going to propose new mortgage rules, which they say will prevent another financial crisis, but the critics are saying the rules will just make it more expensive to buy a house and will hurt the already fragile housing market.

The rules would require buyers to put down at least 20 percent on a new home and meet strict requirements for income in order to qualify for a loan.

The government would save billions of dollars at the eligibility age for Medicare goes up to 67. But according to a new study out from the Keiser Family Foundation, those costs would shift to others, including businesses.

Businesses would pay roughly $4.5 billion dollars more for health insurance because the older workers would stay on the job longer so another thing to consider this morning.

As for the markets, less than an hour until the opening bell rings on Wall Street. Dow futures are up more than 20 points this morning. S&P and Nasdaq futures are also rising.

As for the top of the hour economic news, the latest on home prices, the Case-Shiller index, Bob Shiller in the meantime will be our guest in the 11:00 hour here on Fox Business to talk about that. Crude oil, as we said, it's down a little today 103.18 a barrel.

JOSHI: All right, time now for a check of your national forecast with Maria Molina. Maria, my flip-flops have been gathering a lot of dust. When can I finally uncover them, this week or --

MARIA MOLINA, FOX WEATHER CENTER: So if you're planning on getting a pedicure, you might want to hold off until at least we head into the month of April. So we are wrapping up the month of March way below average as far as temperatures go.

Not just across the northeast, here in New York City, but also as we head westward across the Great Lakes even into the upper Midwest. So areas like Chicago, Minneapolis, still experiencing those below average temperatures.

And there is a storm system starting to develop across the center of the nation and it will be bringing in a slight risk for severe weather across parts of Mississippi, Louisiana and also, into eastern Texas, so that's going to be one thing to watch.

Otherwise, wintery weather will be an issue today across parts of South Dakota down into Nebraska, Kansas and even northern Missouri with some light accumulation.

And already see some of the white stuff starting to show up on radar and also a batch of thunderstorms further south along with some rain across Southern Missouri and parts of Arkansas.

JOSHI: All right, thanks, Maria, delaying my pedicure for another few days. We're about 45 minutes away from the market open on this Tuesday morning and the IMUS IN THE MORNING show continues right now.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

IMUS: What do you want to talk to me about now?

HARRY CONNICK JR., MUSICIAN: The first thing I wanted to talk to you about. Are you still on the exercise regimen you don't miss a day?

IMUS: Three years and a day.

CONNICK: Is that right? I want you to know at that since you said that I started and it's been, well, it's not nearly as accomplished as your record, but 266 days.

IMUS: Really?

CONNICK: Yes, every single day.

IMUS: What do you do?

CONNICK: I swing a lot of kettle bells, I do cardio. No weights or anything like that, just a lot of, like what they call functional training. You ever use kettle bells.

IMUS: No.

CONNICK: They're like 200-year-old Russian workout, basically big iron bells with a handle on them and all kinds of things you can do with them.

But I said now what, if you can do that, then absolutely no reason that I shouldn't do it and I asked my trainer, is there any reason I shouldn't work out seven days a week.

He said absolutely not. As long you're not, you know, ripping muscle tissue apart and it's been 264.

CHARLES MCCORD: Wow.

CONNICK: I think days.

IMUS: I'm at 1,096 days.

CONNICK: Last time I saw you were at 700 something, and I said gosh, I wonder if I ever could get to that.

IMUS: And it was one of the funniest things you ever written. I gave him copy of the Imus ranch record, the original one. Thinking, you know, of course, this is a great record. You know, but I mean, it had great people on it, Levon Helm and great people.

CONNICK: Not everybody is going to agree with you that it has great music. You know the expression, you can't please everybody. I'm everybody in that sense. Just 'cause you like it doesn't mean that, you know, you're just going to give it to everybody and they're going to bow down, a legend.

IMUS: Little Richard was on it. Willy Nelson was on it. I mean, Dwight Yokun was on it. Lucinda Williams.

CONNICK: I mean, that's, that's all great for you.

IMUS: Right.

CONNICK: But it does nothing for me.

IMUS: So he writes --

CONNICK: I like all of those artists, but the fact. I think what turned me off to it was that you shoved it down my throat. No, you shoved it down my throat.

You were wearing a t-shirt, you know, speaking of Willy Nelson, this is the other thing I wanted to tell you. I didn't mean to cut you off because you were going to mention a piece of comic brilliance I had something to do with.

IMUS: Yes, you said. He writes on the album. I have it on my desk. There is zero percent chance that I will listen to this piece of s-h, harry. It's still funny. What were you going to say now?

CONNICK: I'm doing a movie with Willie Nelson right now.

IMUS: You are.

CONNICK: It's the coolest thing you've ever done.

IMUS: What's the movie?

CONNICK: It's called "When Angels Sing" and Kris Kristofferson is in it, too.

IMUS: Cowboy movie?

CONNICK: No, we're shooting in Austin, Texas and there are a lot of Austin musicians in it. But I have a lot of scenes with Willy and I didn't know him prior to this, what an amazing guy.

IMUS: He's a great musician.

CONNICK: Forget that, he's a great musician, just a legendary musician, but just the coolest guy so smart and just so interesting to be around.

IMUS: I love the way he plays the guitar.

CONNICK: This dude, I mean.

IMUS: I know.

CONNICK: Do you know the record he did with Winston Marsales?

IMUS: No.

CONNICK: He did a record with Win who's a dear friend of mine who's the musician's musician. And I happened to talk to Winston last night. We're talked about Willie, why did you do that?

I was just curious because it was an interesting pairing. He says Willie is the real deal. He's just, it's something you don't see that much anymore, somebody who sort of maintains their identity, no matter what's going on.

Especially now, this kind of culture, it's, everything is all over the place and he's always been Willie Nelson.

IMUS: You studied with Marcelis' father, right?

CONNICK: I did, Elliss.

IMUS: An annoying little childhood in New Orleans and maybe you weren't annoying.

CONNICK: I was really annoying. It took somebody like Elliss to rein me in. He was a really task master.

IMUS: So everybody who comes on the program, we ask for five favorite songs. So I came in -- looking forward to what yours were because without patronizing you, you're one of the great musicians of our generation.

CONNICK: Thanks, I'm not in your generation, but go on.

IMUS: OK, whatever generation you're in.

CONNICK: I'm about four generations behind you, OK.

IMUS: OK, fine.

MCCORD: About the current culture, then come on.

IMUS: You evil bastard.

CONNICK: I'm really angry today, I don't know why.

IMUS: That's all right. Don't help me in my battle with cancer, don't worry about that.

CONNICK: Had to play that card. That makes me feel great.

MCCORD: Bang, trumps anything.

IMUS: So I don't know what I was saying. What was I saying, Charles?

MCCORD: You were saying what were your five favorite --

IMUS: So I want to know what's your five favorite songs - so this will be really interesting. So Doris Kearns Goodwin what would be her five favorite songs --

CONNICK: That would be interesting.

IMUS: Almost like Elvis, Little Richard, stuff like Fats Domino. You would think she would, you know, cop an attitude and it would be all you and Chaikovsky, but the message I got was, any of the songs from your album, your current album. Well, that couldn't have been a response from you, right?

CONNICK: Well, you're assuming that it wasn't a response it me, but what could have happened, what are my favorite songs are my songs? It doesn't mean anything, does it? Does that imply that I'm conceited or anything?

IMUS: Yes, plus if you're promoting stuff on this album, which you're trying to hump. You're not here because you like us. I mean, I guess you don't go on shows where you hate the people.

CONNICK: I actually really love doing this show.

IMUS: No, you don't you because already come on only come on when you have something to sell, which is fine with us by the way. You're welcome anytime.

CONNICK: That's kind of a blanket. We love to see you some time.

IMUS: When was the last time you were here?

CONNICK: When you invited me to be on. My publicist-- you don't call and e-mail me.

IMUS: What were you selling last time?

CONNICK: I don't know, another record I guess.

IMUS: Yes, had some guy with you, one of your butt boys. One of your butt boys and don't know who that was.

CONNICK: Yes, that's my buddy Jerry.

IMUS: A funny guy, actually.

CONNICK: Yes, I couldn't believe it. You were looking at me like why did you bring this guy. How do you remember that?

IMUS: I don't know, I just--

CONNICK: That's impressive, impressive.

IMUS: Thank you.

CONNICK: No, I actually really love this show. I was talking to some friends about -- last night at dinner about they were asking me about pre- interviews and stuff.

And there's a few people, very few people who don't do anything like that and I think that that requires a huge amount of talent, and on the part of the interviewer.

And in fact, you hardly ever see, maybe one or two people and you're one of them which basically --

IMUS: We don't do pre-interviews. Bernie, don't we do pre-interviews?

BERNARD MCGUIRK: Never.

IMUS: How do we know what somebody is going to say?

CONNICK: What do you do when you have a guest that has nothing to talk about or more specifically can't really do it on the air? Now what I mean?

IMUS: Their album or -

CONNICK: They come on and not big talkers.

IMUS: Harry Connick. Are you going to be on Broadway?

CONNICK: Yes, in the fall. Do you ever go to Broadway shows?

IMUS: All the time.

CONNICK: Do you really?

IMUS: Man, we've been to see American idiot two or three times.

CONNICK: Is that pretty good?

IMUS: That's a great show.

CONNICK: The guy who directed that is directing me in the fall.

IMUS: Do you like "Green Day?"

CONNICK: I do actually. I like --

IMUS: That show is so good it's stupid.

CONNICK: Really?

IMUS: It opens -- I don't know much about Broadway, but the stage explodes.

CONNICK: Is that right?

IMUS: You think they're never going to be able to sustain this for two hours, they do, it's great.

CONNICK: I've heard great things about it and haven't had a chance to see it.

IMUS: I also like "Million Dollar Quartet" and I had a guy in here, from the "New York Post," thought it was kind of cheesy, but the guy that plays piano and does Jerry Lee Lewis, you'd love that.

CONNICK: Yes, I've heard that he was terrific.

IMUS: Man, he can sit on the piano and play, play the piano backwards, you can do that?

CONNICK: I've never tried, but that's one of those --

IMUS: Yes or no, can you do it?

CONNICK: It's amazing, but not --

IMUS: Yes or no, can you do that?

CONNICK: I would have to say probably not.

IMUS: OK. See, there you go. You probably can't.

CONNICK: I can barely play it forward.

MCCORD: Right.

IMUS: Wow, listen to that. Why did you agree to do this Broadway show?

CONNICK: I just had a great time the last time I was on Broadway and I read they've re-- you're talking about the record or this one in the fall? Because two, like this is Broadway concert.

IMUS: You're just cashing in on this show, you already did.

CONNICK: Yes, and that's just --

IMUS: And here is the thing, you don't like this kind of music, this is great.

CONNICK: That's really nice to say.

IMUS: I mean, we played some of it, Lou.

LOU RUFINO: We've played a lot, yes.

IMUS: And it doesn't irritate us.

CONNICK: I dig that, man, because like my wife from Lubbock, Texas and then she grew up in Colorado. She never grew up with this kind of music and so, I think she's acquired a taste for it and I think she actually digs it now.

And so, I see, there are a lot of people like, man, I'm not -- it's not particularly relevant, you know?

IMUS: Yes, yes, but I mean, it's like Jackson Pollock or somebody, you don't have to understand it, it looks good.

CONNICK: It's a feeling you get. You're right you don't have to understand it, but I appreciate that. That's actually really nice.

IMUS: What are your five favorite songs?

CONNICK: Man.

IMUS: Name one.

CONNICK: I like "Bye-bye Love" by Ray Charles. Just for the introduction alone, even before he comes in.

IMUS: and from that, from the country and western, from the country and western album he has, it's good.

CONNICK: Yes, I like Queen. I love I'm a big Freddy Mercury fan.

IMUS: He died, you know.

CONNICK: I know. Did you ever meet him?

IMUS: No. Why? What are you saying? What's that mean?

MCCORD: Just curious, just curious.

IMUS: I see. Harry Connick Jr.'s album is called "Out of Broadway." I'm sorry we're out of time.

CONNICK: I love coming here.

IMUS: You only come here when you have something.

CONNICK: I tell you what. You know what I'm going to do. I'm going to come maybe even tomorrow, but I'm going to come and I'm going to be a part of the show and see how you respond.

IMUS: You're welcome anytime. Harry Connick Jr.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

MCSHANE: All right, I want to take you to some pictures that are coming to us out of London this morning where they've been holding that conference to do with what the future might hold in Libya.

Secretary of State Hillary Clinton representing the United States there as leaders of some 40 countries gather and talk about the future in Libya, and the immediate future very much has to do with the clashes taking place on the ground there.

And the report out of AFP this morning that NATO might delay taking over the mission in Libya. That came out just a few minutes ago. We'll continue to follow all of it for you as we continue here on IMUS IN THE MORNING. Don't go away.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

MCSHANE: Welcome back to IMUS IN THE MORNING as we track the markets ahead of the open on Wall Street a little more than half hour to go. The Dow futures are up 25 points. It looks like maybe a little bit higher open for you this morning. Let's check the oil price as well, we are at $103.08 or $103.07 for a barrel of crude oil.

The Supreme Court today is going to take on this huge sex discrimination suit against Wal-Mart. The court will decide if the case can be proceed as a class action and if so then it goes back down to a lower court.

Maybe as many as one and a half million female employees will be plaintiffs as they claim Wal-Mart favors men over women in pay and promotion. The Supreme Court's decision will likely to take a few months.

And GE making another acquisition, energy-related acquisition. Again as you look at the stock price a little bit lower. General Electric buying a 90 percent stake in Converteam for $3.2 billion. This is a company that makes power conversions systems and GE may buy the rest of it over the next two to five years. The stock 19.72 in pre-market trading.

On top of that, amazon.com looking to become a little more than just a retailer. The company unveiling two new services that allow customers to store music videos and photos on its servers and access them. Amazon says users also will be able to play music on any Android device or PC. More news coming up at the top of the hour, right now IMUS IN THE MORNING continues on Fox Business.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

IMUS: From Arnie Thornson, he's from Wisconsin, I believe, and you don't believe or trust anyone, but when the government tells you people die from secondhand smoke, you laugh it up. Why not the same skepticism? Well there's scientific evidence that secondhand smoke kills people and causes cancer and emphysema, right, Charles?

MCCORD: Yes, sir.

IMUS: And not just the government. Go put another tire on top of your trailer and leave me alone. This is from Patty Parish in South Carolina. Shut up about the smoking habits. You did it for years and now you look like an albino prune.

RUFINO: A lot of hate.

IMUS: A lot of hate from Patty. Let Boehner find out the hard way why he shouldn't smoke, and leave him alone.

END

Content and Programming Copyright 2011 Fox News Network, LLC. ALL    RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2011 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.    All materials herein    are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,    distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the    prior written permission of CQ-Roll Call. You may not alter or remove any    trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.      

Document FBNIM00020110329e73t00001

News; International
Japan's Nuclear Crisis "Very Grave"; Obama Defends War in Libya; Honk, Honk Stall Out; Buy A Dish, Get a Gun; The Wal-Mart Argument; Syrian Government Stepping Down; A Success Story

Kiran Chetry, Ali Velshi, Christine Romans, Martin Savidge, Rob Marciano, Nic Robertson, Jeffrey Toobin, Sanjay Gupta      
8,495 words
29 March 2011
CNN: American Morning
CNLM
English
© 2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. All rights reserved. Prepared by CQ Transcriptions, LLC.      

ALI VELSHI, CNN ANCHOR: Highly toxic plutonium seeping into the soil around the Daiichi power station.

I'm Ali Velshi.

Officials in japan now calling their nuclear crisis very grave.

CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Christine Romans.

She told foreign journalists a horrifying story of being raped by Moammar Gadhafi's soldiers. Now her alleged attackers are accusing her of slander.

KIRAN CHETRY, CNN ANCHOR: And I'm Kiran Chetry.

There's a Senate hearing today on Muslim civil rights. Critics say it's about politics not really solutions, but the man behind those hearings is here to defend them on this AMERICAN MORNING.

VELSHI: Good morning. It's Tuesday, March 29th. A big night last night. President Obama delivering his first broad comments about what was going on in Libya and didn't really silence critics on both sides. We'll be talking about that this hour.

ROMANS: And meantime, new developments in Japan, a situation that continues to evolve there. The situation, the Daiichi nuclear power station has turned very grave. According to a top government official in Japan, toxic plutonium has been discovered in soil around the plant, a sign the reactors have been seriously damaged. And all of that water that has been used to cool off overheating fuel rods, the water is now posing a very serious threat.

Martin Savidge is live in Tokyo this morning for us -- Martin.

MARTIN SAVIDGE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Christine, you can add one more element to that rundown there, and that is a very large aftershock, 6.4. We had it just about half an hour ago. It was centered off the coast of Fukushima prefecture. In other words, up in the same area where all of the drama is playing out regarding the nuclear plant.

And about that -- well, the water situation. It used to be that they couldn't get enough water on the reactors in the fuel ponds out there. Now, it appears they are doing a very delicate balancing act, try to balance getting enough water on there to keep those reactors under control, keep the fuel rods covered, but, at the same time, not so much water they start pouring it into the ocean.

The good news is we just had some numbers that have come in from measuring radiation in the ocean. They are still high but they're not as high as they were two days ago. So, they are headed in the right direction, but they still don't know how the contamination is getting into the seawater.

Likely what's going on is there's been just so much surround and drown going on there that the water is going from the reactors into some sort of channels, possibly the tunnels that are used for electrical cables and then ending up in the ocean.

And then we have the plutonium. This is the announcement that came overnight Tokyo time and it was quite a shocker to be told that in five different locations in the soil, out there at the nuclear facility, they found three different varieties of plutonium. At first, the way the announcement was made, it sounded like that could be plutonium came from the old atomic days of testing in the atmosphere.

Later, though, it was clarified and the government announced that they do believe, in fact, that plutonium has come from one of the reactors there. That's serious. The stuff is extremely lethal if you inhale it or ingest it. But the levels they found are very, very small.

Right now, it is a concern, but not an overriding one. The real thing is they got to get the power, the pumps -- everything else turned on. But they can't get in there with all of this radioactive water -- Christine.

ROMANS: Martin, we understand you're getting a little more insight into the life of the workers at the plant. What can you tell us about what they're going through and the conditions for them?

SAVIDGE: Well, what we are finding out is more like what is their life like when they are not in in there facing the grave dangers of trying to get everything hooked back up. And that is about 400 of them up at the facility and they lead a very Spartan life.

First of all, the description we've had from people who have visited with them is that they start the morning eating crackers and usually some sort of fruit juice. And then their meal at night is some pre-prepared meal. It sounds like an MRE or something that comes out of a can.

They sleep right on the same facility, mainly on the floor, on floor mats, and they are working three days on and one day off and when they leave, of course, they are carefully scanned and then scanned once again as they come back in.

But the communications are also drastically cut back. Reportedly faxes and telephone calls are greatly diminished because they are trying to save power. Communication, you would think, would be the most critical factor of trying to coordinate how they keep everything under control, Christine.

ROMANS: Wow. It's just amazing, those details.

Thanks, Martin Savidge.

CHETRY: To Syria now, where thousands of people are pouring into the streets of the capital of Damascus. We have new video right now of the scene there. This is a pro-President Bashar al-Assad rally. People are waving Syrian flags, holding pictures of the president.

But, elsewhere in the country, a very tense situation. And after deadly riots, the entire Syrian cabinet is now expected to resign perhaps as soon as a few hours from now.

VELSHI: And, remember, people must be wondering about this pro-Assad rally. This is a totalitarian regime and has a brutal totalitarian regime. So, there are people out there who are probably thinking to themselves -- well, I might save myself, my family, and my job in this turmoil by going out to a pro-government rally.

I -- we must read that as groundswell of support for this totalitarian regime.

CHETRY: Right. And we saw it in Egypt as well, when those pictures are unfolding in our air. In Libya as well.

VELSHI: That's right.

CHETRY: I mean, Moammar Gadhafi still claims he has the support of the people.

VELSHI: Sure. Well, there are a lot of people who worry about their daily lives that might out be there.

ROMANS: And their paycheck.

VELSHI: And their paycheck, absolutely.

All right. Now, to the future -- for Libya's future. We were just talking about that.

Rebel forces are pulling back from positions near Moammar Gadhafi's hometown of Sirte. You can see that in the middle of the map. Heavy fire from Gadhafi's troops forced them to retreat. Opposition fighters using coalition airstrikes as cover were able to retake several oil towns in Libya.

This continues to capture our imagination and horror. These are pictures yesterday of a woman who walked into a hotel where foreign journalists were staying, two days ago, to tell them that she had been held and raped by Gadhafi forces. Now, the men accused of raping her have reportedly filed countercharges against her for slander.

The woman, Iman al-Obeidi, told foreign journalists this horrifying story that she had been raped and tortured for two days at the hands of those soldiers after being picked up at a checkpoint. She showed the journalists there her injuries before being whisked away by government agents at a hotel in Tripoli. Officials say she was allowed to return home. But her parents say she don't know where she is.

CHETRY: President Obama ordering air strikes over Libya, saying that that was the right thing to do. And in a speech to the American people last night, he said that military intervention prevented a blood bath in Libya.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: It's true that America cannot use our military wherever repression occurs. Given the cost and risks of intervention, we must always measure our interests against the need for action. But that cannot be an argument for never acting on behalf of what's right.

In this particular country, Libya, at this particular moment, we were faced with the prospect of violence on a horrific scale. We had a unique ability to stop that violence.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CHETRY: Well, the president said that although removing Moammar Gadhafi by force would be a mistake, he would like to see him go.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: Of course, there is no question that Libya and the world would be better off with Gadhafi out of power. I, along with many other world leaders, have embraced that goal, and will actively pursue it through nonmilitary means. But broadening our military mission to include regime change would be a mistake.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ROMANS: Senator John McCain joined us earlier on AMERICAN MORNING. You know, he wasn't happy with the president taking military force off the table as a way of getting Gadhafi out.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. JOHN MCCAIN (R), ARIZONA: I don't think he's very comfortable, but when the president says that it would be a mistake to use military force in order to take him out of power, which is U.S. policy to, quote, "force him to step down," I think is a serious mistake.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CHETRY: All right. So, we heard from the critics. Coming up in a few minutes, we're going to hear from the other side, Senator Dick Durbin, on the president's address and also what we can expect from the senator's hearing on Muslim bigotry in the U.S. that's set for later today.

VELSHI: The FBI is trying to figure out what caused a small hole in a U.S. Airways jet. A pilot discovered the hole on the outside of his Boeing 737 fuselage yesterday during a typical preflight inspection. The plane had just flown from Philadelphia to Charlotte. More than 140 passengers scheduled to fly on that plane were all booked on other flights.

ROMANS: A bomb threat at Apple. Apple's offices in Oak Grove, California, were evacuated yesterday after someone phoned in that threat. The offices are about 125 miles from Apple's headquarters in Cupertino. Police said bomb-sniffing dogs went in but didn't find any explosives there.

CHETRY: And they are still searching for this cobra, this potentially deadly cobra at New York City's Bronx zone. The zoo's reptile house is still closed after it escaped over the weekend. Officials say that they are confident the 20-inch snake is lurking somewhere inside the building. In fact, they noted that they hope the snake will surface when her comfort level rises.

VELSHI: Nice.

CHETRY: They say it could take days or weeks to find the cobra. In the meantime, you know, in a sign of our culture and times, a Twitter account chronicling the fictitious adventures of the snakes now has more than 20,000 followers.

VELSHI: Now, may I ask two questions?

CHETRY: Yes.

VELSHI: The first one is a qualification. This Twitter account is not being run by the Bronx zoo. We don't think. We think it's somebody --

CHETRY: Yes. It's run by a clever individual who is tweeting on behalf of the snake.

VELSHI: OK. Number two, where are we so confident again that this thing is in the snake house, the reptile house? They say so, but they don't know where the snake is, right?

CHETRY: They seem to believe that it would be difficult for the snake to slither out of the two doors.

VELSHI: What struck me is that they seem to believe that snake wasn't going to leave its normal encasement.

CHETRY: You got always have to have a plan B.

ROMANS: Is it a she?

VELSHI: I don't know if it's a she. That was my third question.

ROMANS: It's a she.

VELSHI: But I was out of questions. Rob Marciano in the extreme weather center always has answers for us.

Rob, do you know anything about the snake? And if not, go straight to the weather.

(CROSSTALK)

ROB MARCIANO, AMS METEOROLOGIST: Yes, no, I just know about little pests in my house and they can get into things that you wouldn't think they could.

ROMANS: You could use a snake to get rid of little pests in your house.

MARCIANO: I'll tell you what, bring Rikki-Tikki-Tavi of this whole mess. He will get it cleaned up. That's for sure.

Good morning again, guys.

Temperatures got a chilly for man or reptile across the Northeast and that is going to be the ongoing trend I think over the next couple of days. Subfreezing in spots in Chicago and Minneapolis. And in Minneapolis, that's actually helping things because, you know, we got record snow pack there in some cases and we're probably going to be seeing some flooding and that cold air at least slows down the melting snow.

No snow across the South but we're going to see some rain. Some of these are going to be heavy at times from Houston to New Orleans today. And that's all associated with a pretty vigorous system that's starting to take shape across parts of the South.

The northern part of this energy is starting to weaken there. So, what looks pretty bad on the radar here is beginning to fizzle out, maybe half an inch or an inch of snow in some spots. But just saying that, even that little bit of snow as we wrap up the month of March, you know, you got to have bit of a gut check there.

Temps five, 10, 15 degrees below average again across much of the nation's northern third.

Guys, back up to you. That snake is -- that's your problem up there, you know? I'm 700 miles away.

ROMANS: I have long said, there are worse things on the streets of New York than a cobra in a reptile house.

VELSHI: There are in fact.

MARCIANO: That's a good point.

VELSHI: That is true. All right, Rob, good to see you, as always. Thank you.

MARCIANO: All right, guys.

VELSHI: Still ahead this morning, we are going live to one of the coldest places on the planet, the arctic wilderness. That's where environmental activist Philippe Cousteau is spending his day studying climate change and exploring the harsh conditions just outside the North Pole.

Philippe is brilliant. He's committed. And what else is he? He is dreamy.

CHETRY: You think he's dreamy! This is hilarious. You have a bromance going on with Philippe Cousteau.

VELSHI: No, but tell Ed.

CHETRY: It's going be -- I know. It's going to be cool, though, to broadcast live from the North Pole.

VELSHI: Yes.

ROMANS: Also a little later, what's it like to be a female employee of Wal-Mart, the world's biggest retail? More than a million women say it's frustrating and unfair and they are going to court. But is Wal-Mart too big to be sued?

VELSHI: That's the good question. Too big to be sued -- we haven't heard that, have we?

ROMANS: It's 11 minutes after the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CHETRY: Fourteen minutes past the hour right now.

President Obama is making his case for going to war in Libya. He talked to the nation last night and said that the U.S. had a responsibility to act. Listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: Some nations may be able to turn a blind eye to atrocities in other countries. The United States of America is different. And, as president, I refuse to wait for the images of slaughter and mass graves before taking action.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CHETRY: Joining us now from Capitol Hill is Senator Dick Durbin, Democrat from Illinois, and assistant Senate majority leader.

Thanks so much for being with us this morning, Senator.

SEN. DICK DURBIN (D), ILLINOIS: Thanks, Kiran. Good to be with you.

CHETRY: In your opinion, did the president successful lay out the case for our involvement in Libya but also set the parameters for future American military involvement overseas?

DURBIN: Yes, he did. And it's very important that we stress that latter point. The president made it clear that our involvement in Libya is going to be limited and focused. We are not going to engage in the type of war which we have seen in Iraq and Afghanistan.

We are working with broad coalition of Arab nations, the support of the United States, and we are certainly saying to other countries who are part of this effort, you may lead, we will support. But there will be no ground troops and no long-term duration.

CHETRY: And that's something that was criticized actually by your colleague, Senator John McCain, who we had on the show a little while ago. He said that to say that we rule out the use of military power to get rid of Moammar Gadhafi actually contradicts the situation on the ground, and he went on to compared it to the first Gulf War where we had a coalition, we had a no-fly zone, and Saddam Hussein remained in power for ten years.

DURBIN: Well, I understand John's point of view, but I also want to suggest to John that there are other countries in the world with land forces. It doesn't have to always be the United States that sends the soldiers and marines and airmen forward. Let us support those countries that want to engage in this at that level. What we are seeing today is encouraging in Libya.

I recall John McCain suggested we should impose a no fly-zone. The president is doing that, and it's working. We're seeing Gadhafi giving ground, the rebels moving forward. I hope that it will hasten the day when Gadhafi is gone.

CHETRY: If Gadhafi remains in power? Has this been a success, in your mind?

DURBIN: It has in disrespect (ph). The Arab league has expelled Libya and gadhafi. The Arab league came to us and asked us for our help. The people of Libya who were the victims of Gadhafi asked for us to stand up and assist them. And that message won't be lost in the Arab and Muslim world. It says that the United States is willing to stand by those in that part of the world who really stand by our values.

CHETRY: I want to turn and ask you a couple of questions about your first-ever Congressional hearing that you're chairing today, focusing on the civil rights at American-Muslims. Is this the direct result of Congressman Peter King's controversial hearing on the radicalization of American-Muslims earlier in the month?

DURBIN: No. I made a point of waiting until his hearing was over to have our own hearing, the very first of our constitution human rights subcommittee this session of Congress. What we're addressing is something that needs to be addressed with regularity in America, a reminder of the basic freedoms of our constitution, the freedom to practice a religion.

The fact as President Bush and President Obama have said, Islam is a great religion. There are Muslim-Americans who are patriotic law abiding citizens, who assist us in fighting the war on terrorism. They should be allowed to free exercise their religion, and they shouldn't be subjected to discrimination.

CHETRY: Well, some are questioning why you're choosing just the Islam to focus on -- there's a Department of Justice study on religious-hate crimes. This was from 2009, the most recent year that they did the data, and they said that 8.4 percent of religious hate crimes in America were against Muslims, by contrast, 72 percent were anti-Jewish. Can we expect Senate hearings about the civil right of anti-Jewish groups and others?

DURBIN: And there have been allegations, I think, sound allegations or discrimination against Christians. The bottom line is I'm opposed to discrimination based on a person's religious belief. I have spoken out against anti-Semitism. I've spoken out against those who have tried to cast dispersions on Christian belief, seek religion, but this is to focus on the Muslim religion for obvious reasons.

We've had a great amount of debate in American. Even in my home state of Illinois about the location of mosques and those who participate in the Islamic religion. I think it's important that we speak to this today.

CHETRY: Well, it is interesting, though, I mean, op-ed for CNN.com, Bill Bennett, makes the comment that post 9/11, the American people have actually been quite temperate when it comes to any type of bias against Muslims. He noted, we elected a president with an Arab name, who's father was born a Muslim.

That our Miss Teen USA, for example, is the first Muslim-American that was crowned this year. And that, when polled, 70 percent of people said they'd have no problems with a mosque being built in their community. Do you not agree that we've made strides?

DURBIN: There's no question about it, but that's the point. Even though, the vast majority of Americans are tolerant and respectful of other religions and understand our constitutional protections, what we always have to watch for is the bigotry and discrimination of a few against those who are religionists. I think that is an important part of this country.

It's part of our history. And I say that as the son of an immigrant whose grandmother came to these shores seeking religious freedom in her own way. That, to me, is important part of being an American. It's what I value. But when some, even those in public life, I might add, start saying things that are discriminatory and bigoted, I think we ought to speak out, have hearings, and explain that that just doesn't the American way.

CHETRY: Well, it's great to talk to you this morning. Sen. Dick Durbin, thanks for being with us on the show.

DURBIN: Thanks, Kiran. Good to be with you.

CHETRY: Ali.

VELSHI: And in case you miss it, CNN's Soledad O'Brien chronicles the dramatic fight over the construction of a mosque in the heart of Bible belt. You'll remember this story from when it happened earlier, "Unwelcome, The Muslims Next Door" re-airs Saturday at 8:00 p.m. eastern.

ROMANS: OK. Honk the horn, stall the car. Up next, a wiring problem prompting a recall this morning. We're "Minding Your Business" next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VELSHI: That looks beautiful! New York City. Sunny, 32 degrees right now. Getting up to -- I need to take my shirt off and bask in Central Park, 46 degrees later on today. That is Central Park you're looking at.

ROMANS: It's pretty.

CHETRY: And we may get lucky. We may get lucky. We may hit 50 sometime before June.

(CROSSTALK)

CHETRY: Yes, exactly.

ROMANS: Sun is regular --

VELSHI: You're talking about getting warmer, getting lucky by getting warmer.

CHETRY: Yes.

(LAUGHTER)

CHETRY: I didn't mean anything else by it, I swear.

Meanwhile, how about this one? If you're driving through the streets and have you a Jetta, don't honk, you might stall out. Yes, that's right. Volkswagen is recalling about 71,000 2011 Jettas, right, because of the rising issue? That could cause the car to short-circuit and turn off when drivers honk the horn. Volkswagen is not aware of any accidents or injuries because of the problem.

VELSHI: Just a little embarrassment.

CHETRY: Probably yes.

VELSHI: All right. This may be one of my favorite stories today. Buy a dish, get a gun for free. A RadioShack in Hamilton, Montana, with a promotion that got our attention. If you sign up for two years of the dish network, they give you a gun, for free. You don't actually walk out of the store with a gun. You get a gift certificate to a local gun shop. The store says the promotion has nothing to do with the RadioShack Franchise. It is an independently owned store. The owner says RadioShack is concerned about some negative attention. Guess what? You should be!

CHETRY: Yes. They said they didn't realize it was going to go to the national level. So, they said --

VELSHI: What part?

CHETRY: This is a part they said that were -- they claim, at least the store owner said that the average person in the town has, like, 24 guns, so this would just be adding to the collection.

VELSHI: I see how it sounds normal that RadioShack is an international company which, by the way, has a remarkable history of bad judgment, so not a big surprise.

ROMANS: Varying cultures and what do you call that --

(CROSSTALK)

VELSHI: That's fair, but RadioShack has nothing to do with a gun, though.

CHETRY: It's a Montana thing.

VELSHI: Yes.

ROMANS: OK. Ali, set your TV hours. Send out the party invites. Oprah Winfrey has announced when -- Ali was actually a guest on Oprah Winfrey --

CHETRY: Wow (ph).

ROMANS: He was the guest (INAUDIBLE). She says her final show will air on May 25th. She's ending her daytime talk show after 25 years but moving on to her OWN cable network. Oprah tweeted that they're working on the final shows right now. We don't know what she's got plan, which one will be the final show that she's working on, but we're sure it's going to be incredible with a lot of yelling and screaming, maybe new cars --

CHETRY: And can you imagine being able to say to somebody, your grandkids, I was the last guest on Oprah?

VELSHI: Maybe they'll invite people to come on, like, to come and just be in the audience. She has an electric personality.

OK. How does melting water from the arctic icecaps affect the earth's weather patterns? Coming up next, Philippe Cousteau, grandson of the legendary explorer, Jack Cousteau, joins us live just outside the North Pole where he is conducting scientific experiments. It's 25 minutes after the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VELSHI: This is truly extreme science. Philippe Cousteau and the CNN team have finally arrived at the Catlin Ice Base. That is inside the Arctic Circle. The side is dubbed the ground zero for climate change. Scientists will deal with brutal storms well below freezing temperatures and isolation, and our crew is there to capture it all.

Philippe joins me now from the Catlin Ice Base. It's a CNN first. We have never broadcast from this close to the North Pole before. Philippe, good morning to you. Tell us about the circumstances under which you are there and what it's like this morning?

PHILIPPE COUSTEAU, CNNI SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, good morning, Ali. I'm delighted to join you. It's, to say the least, very cold outdoors. We arrived yesterday here on the Catlin Ice Base and, you know, the conditions are pretty clear, but we were surrounded by an arctic desert and actually standing on an ocean essentially with about five feet of ice beneath us.

VELSHI: Philippe, what are you doing there, what are you looking for, and what are you going to do to find out what you're out there to find?

COUSTEAU: Well, we're here for a week, Ali, with the Catlin Arctic Survey which is a group of scientists that are looking at various different issues to understand how the arctic system works, how the ecosystem and the environment works here, what's happening with the trend of getting icecaps, with the uptake of carbon in the environment with ocean identification, with when to change it (ph), really to try and get a bigger picture and a more complete picture of what's happening with respect to the health of this environment that is so important to everybody on the entire planet.

I think a lot of people forget that the Arctic really, in a sense, is the air-conditioning unit of the planet and it matters to every single one of us. So understanding what is happening here and in science of what is happening here is very critical.

VELSHI: Philippe, I spoke to you before you left. We were together in Austin. It was a lot warmer. We will see on CNN the fruits of you and the scientists' labor out there because it's a special on CNN. Who are you with and how did you prepare for this?

COUSTEAU: Well, we are with a whole team of scientists up here that have been here certainly a lot longer than we have and will continue on for several weeks after we leave, so they are really the heroes in this situation. They are the ones braving the subzero temperatures. Temperatures get down to about minus 40 degrees Celsius, mine 40 degrees Fahrenheit where Celsius and Fahrenheit intersect.

Last night, it was in the minus 30s. There's no heat in the tents. We are sleeping on the ice itself. A few heated communications in mass tents but other than that, tents are not heated and it's on the edge of science and exploration here. These scientists are the ones at the forefront of understanding these complex systems of how the arctic works.

VELSHI: Philippe, for you to say you're on the edge of exploration means it really must be something because you've taken a lot of risks and you've done a lot of things. I know you went through some pretty good training for this, even training to keep those polar bears off. You stay safe. Glad to hear from you. You said you'd call us when you got there. Stay safe and we will stay in touch with you. Philippe Cousteau at the Catland ice base inside the Arctic Circle.

ROMANS: It's breaking ground right there on television. Something we have never seen before.

Time for this morning's top stories. Highly toxic plutonium discovered in the soil around the Daiichi nuclear power plant in Japan, further evidence the reactors at the facility have been severely damaged. Meanwhile, large pools of radioactive water have to be pumped out of the plant before electricity can be restored to the cooling systems. There is so much of it officials say they have no place to store the water.

U.S. planes targeting Libyan ships overnight off the coast of Misrata. Military official say they fired at three ships, destroying one and damaging the other two. They were targeted after reports the Libyan ships were firing indiscriminately at merchant vessels in the port of Misrata.

Delegates from dozens of country including Secretary of State Hillary Clinton are meeting in London right now to discuss Libya's future. At the top of their agenda is finding ways to pressure Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi to step down. Secretary Clinton met with an opposition leader at the summit and the U.S. plans to sends an envoy to bend Benghazi for more direct talks.

Last night in a speech to the nation, President Obama said the U.S. was obliged to react.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: For generations, the United States of America has played a unique role as the anchor of global security and as an advocate of human freedom. Mindful of the risks of military action, we are naturally reluctant to use force to solve the many challenges. But when our interests and values are at stake, we have a responsibility to act.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ROMANS: The president said removing Moammar Gadhafi by force would be a mistake, but he is convinced that Libya would be better off without him.

CHETRY: In the meantime, on the ground in Libya rebel efforts to capture Gadhafi's hometown of Sirte have stalled. Rebel fighters have been forced to retreat. CNN's Nic Robertson is live in Tripoli for us. Some of have been saying this may be one of the most brutal battles yet. What is the latest?

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, we know his armed civilians there who support the regime have weapons and they also have been involved in the fight back. It seems clear, despite the fact that President Obama has said regime change is not on the immediate agenda here, that if Gadhafi is using heavy weapons to fight the rebels, then these weapons likely are going to be targeted by coalition forces.

There's has been no response from the leadership here to president Obama's speech. No doubt, Gadhafi is perhaps recalibrating a little his position, knowing that perhaps he has dodged the immediate bullet, that is, ground troops to essentially hasten his exit from the political stage here.

But he is a man, even people close to him, I talked to a very senior diplomat here the past few days who works with Gadhafi and knows him well and says Gadhafi will fight to the end and hold on. And that is the battle that we are really seeing unfolding around Sirte right now, Kiran.

CHETRY: We will follow the latest on that. Nic, I want to ask you about the other story that captured attention of so many people, the woman that burst into the western journalist hotel with the accusations of being raped by Gadhafi forces. Now the man accused of that rape has filed countercharges against her for slander. That seems amazing.

ROBERTSON: It does. This story just seems to have no end. As horrendous and horrific the beginning was. We still don't know fully where she is and her condition and safety and well-being essentially. We know her family has stood behind her. There was an engagement ceremony without her in the east of the country attended by the father and the groom and friends of the family.

The symbolism here was important but also the real message that the family and the tribe and her tribe they are giving here as a man from her tribe who is marrying her so her honor is intact. Of course, the government here has tried to sort of smear her, calling her a prostitute, very bad for her here, particularly in the Arab world to be -- to have been raped, her honor essentially to be violated.

But the tribe and family standing behind her. But now the government, after calling her insane and after saying many negative things about her and calling her a prostitute is now putting the forward the men accused of raping her will press charges against her for slander.

So I think we are seeing more of the government pushing back and trying to negate the image that she showed and the words that she put across about this regime, that very few people are brave enough to come forward and say anything negative about the regime. So the government is just trying to squash her and her voice down still. Kiran?

CHETRY: And no one knows where she is, according to her family. CNN's Nic Robertson, live in Tripoli, thank you.

ROMANS: OK, it could be the biggest sex discrimination case in history if it's allowed to proceed as a class. It means more than a million women together can sue they were passed over for raises and promotions at Wal-Mart. Up next, Jeffrey Toobin says Wal-Mart is going to win.

VELSHI: Wow.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ROMANS: At the Supreme Court today attorneys for retail giant Wal-Mart will try to get a huge class action lawsuit tossed out, a lawsuit that could involve 1.5 million female employees claiming gender bias in pay and promotions. The case could have huge implications for Wal-Mart and corporate America.

Joining us live to break down what is at stake is CNN's legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin. This is huge if every woman who worked for this company could be included in this class. This could be a significant suit for the Supreme Court and Wal-Mart. You think ultimately Wal-Mart has a good case of this not being considered a class. Why?

JEFFREY TOOBIN, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Because if you look at the current makeup of Supreme Court, there is a very strong inclination to support corporations against individuals, a strong dislike of class actions is a way to resolve legal disputes.

And this case seems to epitomize, at least to me, everything that the majority in the Supreme Court, the current majority, doesn't like about civil litigation, and my guess is they are going to toss out the class certification.

VELSHI: What is going to the court right now, Jeff, is not the discussion of whether or not Wal-Mart did discriminate in compensation against women. This is just whether or not this can be a class. And Wal-Mart's argue, along with a number of other companies, I understand, have been in support of Wal-Mart, is that it would be unwieldy and too costly for this to be a class action.

TOOBIN: Right. The heart of the argument for Wal-Mart is that if all of the women, hourly workers at Wal-Mart sue on the basis of sex discrimination, Wal-Mart says, look, these are fundamentally different situations. What happens in one store can't be compared to what happened in another store, that all of these women don't have common questions. There are not enough common legal issues to resolve them in a single lawsuit.

It would be unfair to Wal-Mart if the plaintiffs were able to cherry-pick handful of perhaps discriminatory situations and apply them to all of Wal-Mart. That would expose Wal-Mart to an unfair risk of litigation. That's the heart of the argument.

CHETRY: Usually when you think of class action lawsuits you think of smoking, people who say I smoked this same product or taking a certain drug that ended up having bad side effects. What would possibly be the other side of this? What would then tip it in favor of it actually being able to go forward, because what you're saying makes sense, that it would be difficult and the court tends to decide on the side of corporations?

TOOBIN: The plaintiffs point out more than 80 percent of the hourly employees at Wal-Mart are women, but only about a third of the management of Wal-Mart is women. And the plaintiffs say, look don't penalize the women because there is so much discrimination in such a big company. The plaintiffs are saying don't penalize us because Wal- Mart has discriminated on such a grand scale. That is the argument on their side. And so far, it's important to point out, that the women plaintiffs have won at both the district court and the appellate court level.

ROMANS: Jeff, one of the things that plays in here is Wal-Mart is a company that is remarkably uniform. You go into one, it is just like another. In fact, sort of invented this big box you are -- its brand is so the same and its stores are so the same and the managers have the same training. And the way they operate on the front of the store, the back of the store in receiving is all of the same.

Can they use that, the plaintiffs to their advantage and say, look, uniform policies are across the company and those policies, whatever they were, result in only a third of managers being women and 80 percent of hourly workers?

TOOBIN: Absolutely. That's a big part the plaintiffs' argument. I was looking at what we call the b-roll, the background video of Wal- Mart that we have been showing. And I am sure none of us could tell which Wal-Mart that was.

VELSHI: Right, right.

ROMANS: No.

TOOBIN: Because they all look exact -- look at that one on the screen right there. Who knows where that is because they all look exactly the same?

VELSHI: Yes.

TOOBIN: And the plaintiffs point out this is why class actions were invented. They were invented so that plaintiffs would not be penalized by the fact that individual lawsuits would be too difficult to -- too difficult to bring. And it's -- it's a very hard question, because this class is so big that there are certainly going to be some justices on the court who say, look, it's just too unwieldy. It's unfair for Wal-Mart to have to defend a case -- on this scale.

(CROSS TALK)

ROMANS: And then --

TOOBIN: And keep in mind that even for a company as big as Wal- Mart is the financial stakes are huge in this case.

ROMANS: Yes.

TOOBIN: We're talking about multiple, multiple billions of dollars on the line here.

ROMANS: All right, thanks so much, Jeffrey Toobin. And I guess the next -- the next time we talk to you, we will compare "too big to fail" and "too big to sue" and what that all means.

VELSHI: Right.

TOOBIN: There you go.

ROMANS: Thanks Jeff.

TOOBIN: See you soon.

VELSHI: All right, we've got severe thunderstorms in the south. We got snow in the north. We've got your complete travel forecast when we come back from the break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is CNN Breaking News.

VELSHI: All right. I want to give you this news that we just got in. Protesters are in fact forcing change in Syria right now. We are getting news that the Syrian President has accepted the resignations of his cabinet. This is from the country's information ministry spokeswoman.

We heard that this would happen today and comes after a violent crackdown over the past few days in which 37 people have died according to the United Nations. Now what we saw earlier were live pictures of a pro-government rally where we had heard the tens of thousands of people were there. But it does seem that the president has accepted the resignation of the current government.

We don't know on the ground and in the politics of Syria what difference that is going to make --

ROMANS: Right.

VELSHI: -- and certainly whether that is going to satisfy some of these protesters. This has been a long and oppressive regime --

ROMANS: We know that Hosni Mubarak tried the same thing early on in the protesters --

VELSHI: Right.

(CROSSTALK)

ROMANS: -- against him and he tried to get rid of his entire cabinet, his entire government and he was going to hold on and reform the company and of course that did not last.

VELSHI: All right, we will follow this very closely for you the developments in Syria as they happen today.

CHETRY: In the meantime, here at home we're following the latest with the weather. Rob Marciano is in the Extreme Weather Center for us. We have two days left in March. This has been a bear, this has been a lion, as they say.

MARCIANO: Yes it's going out that way, too. I think for a lot of folks and winter is just holding on. A case in point places like Christianburg (ph), Virginia, check it out some snow yesterday. This is pretty late in the season yes to get snow in Virginia. Not -- not a record setter. It did cause some accidents.

Greensburg, North Carolina, got some snow yesterday that was a record-setter -- a record setter and you know, out west, they are getting, they are breaking records across the board. Another storm coming into the Pacific Northwest, all of the mountain resorts and many of them staying well past where -- open where well past where they would normally be open this year because of the amazing amounts of snow.

And they are watching this area of disturbed weather which is some of the energy that has been coming out of the Rocky Mountains and it's going to stir up stuff in the Gulf of Mexico.

Another point, it's certainly cold enough for snow for places like Minneapolis, Chicago, back even through Kansas City and D.C. Temperatures right now above, right around freezing in some of these spots.

Where the convective activity is going to be the strongest is across southeast Texas and that means thunderstorms that could become severe across the I-10 corridor into Louisiana back to Baton Rouge and southern Mississippi and Alabama.

And then, this storm kind of really gets its act together as we go to tonight and tomorrow. It gets into the same spots that saw the rough weather yesterday in Florida and southern parts of Georgia.

So severe thunderstorms potentially as we get through tomorrow. And as this thing tracks a little bit farther to the north we'll get a little bit more moisture heading towards Delmarva and maybe even a little bit of snow on the backside of this through Pennsylvania and into parts of upstate New York.

So maybe even April 1st we'll have some snow falling out of the sky. Just kind of keep-the-theme going guys. You don't want to really break a trend that has been working for us.

ROMANS: You're such a nice guy, Rob. And then you have to throw something like that a bombshell at 8:51 in the morning.

VELSHI: Yes, yes I was feeling good.

MARCIANO: I thought I spun it all right.

VELSHI: We will send that Bronx Zoo snake down your way.

ROMANS: Yes. All right, its 51 minutes past the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VELSHI: In today's "Human Factor" you'll meet Isaac Lidsky. At a young age he was told he had a genetic condition that would cost him to slowly lose his vision. But it never stopped him from pursuing his dreams.

Dr. Sanjay Gupta has more.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Isaac Lidsky's newest job is learning to take care of his three beautiful new babies. That's a challenge for him because he can't see his children.

Lidsky has retinitis pigmentosa. It's a rare form of blindness that progresses over time. He got the diagnosis when he was 13, soon after landing a role on TV's "Saved by the Bell, the New Class."

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hasn't won in ten years. If you can make money losing, we would be millionaires.

ISAAC LIDSKY, HOPE FOR VISION: I loved acting. I loved being on the set and it was just exciting.

GUPTA: But acting wasn't his dream. Law school was.

LIDSKY: As I really started experiencing vision loss in college, it was more of a nuisance than a disability.

GUPTA: Undeterred, he got into Harvard Law School and made it to the Supreme Court. He clerked for retired Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, as well as Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.

LIDSKY: It's hard to anticipate the experience of slowly losing your vision and then living as a blind person.

GUPTA: Now at 31 he is legally blind.

LIDSKY: Right now, I'm sort of dealing with light and dark. Maybe the occasional sort of shape.

GUPTA: While Lidsky can't overcome his blindness he hasn't let it stop him from what he wants to do.

LIDSKY: With things like a walking cane, a screen reading software, it really doesn't slow me down in any practical sense.

GUPTA: This young lawyer hopes that one day people like him will see again which is why he started "Hope for Vision", to raise awareness and money for research.

LIDSKY: At this point in my life really it's -- it's wanting to see my children that motivates me to continue to work to overcome this challenge. I want more than ever to find a treatment or a cure.

GUPTA: Dr. Sanjay Gupta, CNN, reporting.

LIDSKY: Finish strong, Lily, finish strong.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ROMAN: Watching developments in Libya and watching Mesrata. There's been some bombing in the port of Mesrata. There's also reports, eyewitnesses who had been calling in to CNN, eyewitnesses saying that there are still -- rebels are still fighting with Gadhafi forces in Mesrata so that's an area we are watching today.

VELSHI: And we're watching Syria because we have word that the government, the president, Bashar al Assad has accepted the resignation of the cabinet. Like you pointed out, that's what happened in Egypt. And that didn't work out too well for Hosni Mubarak.

(CROSSTALK)

ROMANS: Bought him some time in Egypt. We'll see what that means for Syria.

CHETRY: Yes. And whether or not we'll see that as real reform if they'll accept.

VELSHI: And we hear that NATO might be delaying its taking over the mission

CHETRY: In Libya.

VELSHI: In Libya.

CHETRY: Absolutely.

All right. So a lot going on that's why you have to stick with us.

CNN NEWSROOM with Carol Costello starts right now -- hey, Carol.

ROMANS: Hi Carol.

Content and programming copyright 2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP.    ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.    This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.      

Document CNLM000020110329e73t0005l

News; International
Airport Scanners Pose Cancer Risk; Wal-Mart to Ask Supreme Court to Throw Out Sex    Discrimination  Lawsuit; Woman Falls Into Sinkhole; Police Dog "Midge" in Centerfold; A Crisis With No Way Out?; Interview with Senator John McCain

Christine Romans, Ali Velshi, Kiran Chetry, Nic Robertson, Brianna Keilar, Kate Bolduan, Elizabeth Cohen      
7,285 words
29 March 2011
CNN: American Morning
CNLM
English
© 2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. All rights reserved. Prepared by CQ Transcriptions, LLC.      

CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR: Making his case for war. President Obama addresses the nation. Why Libya? Why Gadhafi? Why now?

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Libya, at this particular moment, we were faced with a prospect of violence on a horrific scale.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ROMANS: We'll have the responses from both sides. Senators John McCain and Dick Durbin live on this AMERICAN MORNING.

KIRAN CHETRY, CNN ANCHOR: And good morning to you. So glad you're with us on this Tuesday. It's March 29th. Welcome to AMERICAN MORNING.

ALI VELSHI, CNN ANCHOR: Lot to talk about this morning.

Coming up this hour, new danger at the severely damaged nuclear reactor in Japan. all the water used to cool it, it's now nuclear too. Workers are battling to keep pools of radioactive water from flooding into the ocean.

ROMANS: At 7:15, it could be the largest job description case in American history. The Supreme Court deciding whether 1.5 million women can sue Wal-Mart stores.

CHETRY: Also, nine minutes after the hour, don't honk if you're in a hurry. Volkswagen has to recall thousands of Jettas because honking the horn can cause the engine to stall.

VELSHI: But we begin with President Obama defending the mission in Libya. The president says military intervention was necessary to prevent that bloodbath by Moammar Gadhafi against his own people. But he says removing Gadhafi by force would be a costly mistake.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, (D) PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Of course, there is no question that Libya and the world would be better off with Gadhafi out of power. I, along with many other world leaders, have embraced that goal and will actively pursue it through nonmilitary means. But broadening our military mission to include regime change would be a mistake.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VELSHI: Not everyone's convinced, though, of what the president has to say. CNN's Brianna Keilar is live on Capitol Hill with reaction for us. Brianna, how was the speech received on Capitol Hill?

BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN SENIOR CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: With Republicans, they are certainly still critical, especially House Speaker John Boehner. A spokesman for him put out a statement. As you know, he sent a letter to President Obama last week articulating more than a dozen questions about the U.S. involvement in Libya.

And the spokesman saying last night following the president's speech that a long time had passed and that this speech really only answered a few questions for Americans. It said that it's still unclear what U.S. resources will be required throughout this process.

And even though we heard last night, Ali, President Obama saying that despite the fact that Americans' safety, immediate safety wasn't threatened, this was something where the U.S. needed to intervene, the spokesman for Speaker Boehner raising the question of how is this consistent with U.S. policy?

So this isn't really a surprise. We knew that there would be a lot of questions. But let's talk about Democrats who have also had their concerns, particularly they have said that the president in their eyes didn't consult with Congress enough.

From Democratic leaders in the house and Senate, House Minority Leader Pelosi, Senate Majority Leader Reid generally very supportive statements. And they highlight a couple of particular things, especially that President Obama was talking about the limited scope of U.S. involvement. They certainly emphasize that.

And then the common ground between Democrats and Republicans, both saying how much is this going to cost? And you also had Democrats and Republicans questioning the constitutionality of this, particularly conservative Republicans, oddly, and liberal Democrats like Dennis Kucinich who actually referred to this as the "Obama doctrine," which is certainly some harsh criticism from a democrat for the president.

ROMANS: And we'll have more reaction from both sides this morning. Senator John McCain will join us at 7:40 eastern. We'll also talk to Dick Durbin at 8:10 eastern.

Meantime, the battle on the ground in Libya rages on with rebel forces advancing on Moammar Gadhafi's hometown of Sirte. There's word that the U.S. is sending an envoy to Benghazi for more direct communication with Libyan opposition leaders. CNN's Nic Robertson is live in Tripoli. Hello there, Nic.

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Good morning. Well, the situation in Tripoli is surprising silence having heard what President Obama's had to say. No doubt Moammar Gadhafi will think he's dodged a bullet by hearing there isn't going to be a mission change to put boots on the ground to force regime change here.

But we can certainly expect him to continue to dig in, perhaps reassess his position. What comes out of the conference in London that will determine a more unified political move and military implications, therefore, of what happens here in Libya.

But it is surprisingly silent. Nothing heard here about President Obama's speech. And certainly Sirte is becoming the new front line here in the fight between the rebels and the government. Sirte has a lot of loyalists on Gadhafi's side, reports that people there have been armed.

ROMANS: Nic, there's word this morning that the U.S. may be sending an envoy to Benghazi for more direct communication with the opposition. What are we to make of that move? The president said it's not our job to target Gadhafi and act regime change. It's clear that the U.S. mission and the NATO mission is certainly helping the opposition move forward.

ROBERTSON: It's certainly going to do several things. One, it will certainly ad the psychological and perhaps political pressure on Gadhafi to realize that the world is serious that he has to leave, that this isn't something that is ultimately going to be able to escape in the long run.

But it will also be an important diplomatic step to try to figure out more about this opposition, more about the rebel groups, exactly who are they? How are they organized? Are they going to be an effective part of a future government?

And certainly when you listen to people on this side in Tripoli here, they talk about the opposition leaders as being discredited characters. There's all sorts of slander thrown against them, misappropriation of government funds.

All of these sorts of things to the point they say these are not people they can really negotiate with all the people in the west of the country can deal with. But if there is going to be a negotiated, diplomatic solution, it's going to come from both sides. This will be a step towards that, as well.

ROMANS: Thank you, Nic.

CHETRY: Happening right now in Syria, thousands of people pouring into the streets of the capital of Damascus. You see the big picture of their president, Bashar al-Assad. This is a pro-Assad rally. But elsewhere in the country, a tense situation after deadly riots, the entire Syrian cabinet is expected to resign, perhaps as soon as a few hours from now.

VELSHI: To Japan. Just moments ago another earthquake has struck, a 6.4 in the Miyagi area. All of this is happening while Japanese officials say the situation at the Daiichi nuclear power station is very grave this morning now that highly toxic plutonium has been discovered in the soil around the plant, further evidence that the reactors at the facility have been severely damaged.

Another problem, large pools of radioactive water, they've got to be pumped out of the plant before electricity can be restored to the cooling systems, but there is so much of it that officials say they simply have no safe place to store it.

CHETRY: The problems continue for Italian Prime Minister Silvio Verlusconi. A tax fraud trial is now underway. He appeared in a courtroom yesterday but didn't speak. This case centers around the acquisition of film rights for his media company. Berlusconi also faces charges in three other cases, including one for allegedly having sex with an underage prostitute. That trial starts next week.

The FBI is examining a U.S. airways jet this morning after a pilot discovered a small hole on the outside of the Boeing 737's fuselage yesterday. There were no problems during the actual flight. The plane was quickly taken out of service. More than 140 passengers scheduled to flight were booked on to other flights, and the airline is working with the FBI to figure out what caused that hole.

Spring snow, those are two words that shouldn't go together, but it's a reality for central Virginia where they saw several inches of snow yesterday. It's actually blamed for an 11-car pile-up on a highway in Christiansburg yesterday morning.

VELSHI: Growing up in Iowa, I grew up with spring snow.

CHETRY: Yes.

ROMANS: I could remember going to my cousin's high school graduation party and it was a snowstorm.

CHETRY: And we had one of our biggest snowstorms here in March --

VELSHI: Virginia, we don't expect it so much.

(WEATHER REPORT)

ROMANS: Also, if you own a Jetta, Volkswagen recalling thousands of them because honking the horn could shut down the car, 71,000 of these things. Not as big as the Toyota recalls last year, but it's irritating.

And more importantly, I'm thinking about a college student, you see that cute boy or girl, beep, beep -- that would be a problem, right? You stall out, oh, not a good time. This is an actual issue, and this is truly happening.

Volkswagen of America saying they're going to recall these cars because using the horn could cause a short circuit. And that would disconnect from the converter box if that happens and loses power to say headlight headlights, maybe the engine controller, and if it doesn't have power, you stall out. Not too cool.

So there are all Jettas made between March, 2010 and March, 2011. They're not aware of any accidents or injuries, but we don't want those and I'm sure Volkswagen doesn't want any of those. This one's a smaller one because of some wiring problems, but it could be probably more embarrassing than anything else when you look at it.

CHETRY: Last year it was cars that wouldn't stop, this is a car that does stop. I like the idea of beep, beep -- that's really kind of funny to me. I'm sure they don't think --

VELSHI: It's cartoonish.

Coming up on "American Morning," concerns around the full-body scanners at airports. Now a new report answers our biggest question yet. Are they safe?

ROMANS: And attorneys for Wal-Mart appearing before the Supreme Court trying to get a massive sex discrimination case against the retail giant thrown out. Why everyone with a job should be paying close attention here. It's 12 minutes past the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ROMANS: A new report is out on the full-body scanners at airports. There are some small health risks involved. The article found that the scanners do pose a risk of cancer. That's because the machines use small doses of ionizing radiation, a known carcinogen. But fliers shouldn't be worried. We're told the risks are extremely small. The study explains that for every 100 million passengers who take seven flights a year, only six extra cancer cases were detected over a lifetime.

VELSHI: Whose lifetime? These things haven't been around for that long.

ROMANS: That's what they say.

VELSHI: Yes, I've got to tell you, I start getting uncomfortable with us telling people what they say because I sometimes think that they hold back information.

ROMANS: We're bombarded -- here's the thing. We're bombarded with so many different ways by exposure to chemicals --

VELSHI: Right.

ROMANS: Plastics, to carcinogens, to radiation that, you know, measuring --

CHETRY: It's hard to pinpoint what is the cause.

ROMANS: Right.

VELSHI: It's sort of as if, I eat all this garbage, I shouldn't have a diet coke. Well, hold on, the fact is it doesn't mean you should have more radiation just because you already get lots of radiation. I mean, a lot of people do get cancer.

ROMANS: Does the risk outweigh the safety of knowing what's going -- who's going on an airplane with what?

VELSHI: I think, I don't know. That's a good point.

CHETRY: But the other thing to keep in mind is that you can opt out of this, right? You can opt for a pat-down.

ROMANS: That's right.

VELSHI: Right. There are some things you can't get away with, radiation. A dental x-ray, an MRI, a CT scan, things like that. You can figure out a way to get on a plane without an x-ray. They can x- ray your stuff. Just -- I'm not saying it's wrong. I just think there's a lot of -- there's a lot of officials saying never worry about things and we don't know if that's actually true.

All right. Here's something we know is true. It's the largest sex discrimination case in U.S. history. Six female employees taking on retail giant Wal-Mart in a class action lawsuit that could eventually involve more than 1.5 million if the U.S. Supreme Court decides the case can move forward as a class action suit. Kate Bolduan live in Washington this morning.

Kate, the attorneys for Wal-Mart will be appearing before the Supreme Court today. They're not arguing the merits of the case. They're not arguing today in this case as to whether Wal-Mart did or didn't discriminate against women. This is just about how this case can proceed.

KATE BOLDUAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That's exactly right. And actually, attorneys for both sides, on the sides representing these six women as well as the class action side of it, as well as attorneys for Wal-Mart will be appearing before the court today. But this is a very big case because for one, this involves the biggest name in big box retail. Wal-Mart employs more than 1.4 million people just in the U.S. And now Wal-Mart is asking the Supreme Court to settle a potentially billion dollar battle that really comes down to the rights of corporations versus the rights of workers.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

BOLDUAN (voice-over): It started with six strangers in California. Chris Kwapnoski is one of them.

CHRISTINE KWAPNOSKI, FILED LAWSUIT AGAINST WAL-MART: I'm a fighter if nothing else. And so are all the other women that are involved.

BOLDUAN: Kwapnoski has worked at Sam's Club, part of the Wal-Mart brand for more than two decades. She says she's been paid less than her male counterparts and passed over for promotions for years.

KWAPNOSKI: Men who never had even a day's worth of Sam's Club experience were coming in and I was the one training them.

BOLDUAN: So Kwapnoski and five other women who worked at Wal-Mart are suing the company in a high stakes gender discrimination case.

(on camera): Someone says it's just one bad supervisor or it's a couple bad supervisors. Is it worth taking the entire company on?

KWAPNOSKI: It's just not one supervisor, though. It's supervisor after supervisor after supervisor.

BOLDUAN: The lawsuit began here at this Wal-Mart in Pittsburgh, California, a decade ago. Now the original six women in this case could expand to nearly every female Wal-Mart employee past and present, some 1.5 million women, making this the largest job discrimination case in U.S. history.

(voice-over): Wal-Mart is fighting back, arguing these allegations are isolated, that there's no so-called corporate culture or nationwide pattern of gender bias at their 4,300 facilities.

THEODORE BOUTROUS, ATTORNEY FOR WAL-MART: I think Wal-Mart has a very strong policy against discrimination and in favor of diversity. And it works hard to instill that throughout the company.

GISEL CRUZ, WAL-MART EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT: Our company culture is about providing all associates opportunities to advance and grow.

BOLDUAN: The Supreme Court though isn't weighing in on whether the women's discrimination claims are valid. Rather it's deciding the more technical yet closely watched question. Can they file as a class? Or do they have to fight Wal-Mart individually?

KWAPNOSKI: It's just Wal-Mart's way of trying to stalemate us. They know we're right and they just -- they don't want to admit it.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BOLDUAN: However, many in the business community fear that the outcome of this case, the result of this case could open them up to a flood of frivolous lawsuits causing jobs and hurting the economy. However, the justices decide really could impact businesses across the country far beyond Wal-Mart big and small. We, of course, are going to hear oral arguments today, Ali, and we expect a ruling on this by the end of June.

VELSHI: It's got a lot of impact. Thanks very much, Kate.

ROMANS: Thanks, Kate.

CHETRY: Well, this was a bad morning for one poor lady in Florida. Carla Chapman is her name. She was in the backyard of her Tampa Bay area home yesterday when a sinkhole opened up and pulled her in, literally. It was 24 inches wide and several inches deep. I'm sure we're going to see it in a second. Luckily, Chapman had her cell phone. She had it with her. So she was able to call for help from inside the sinkhole. Here's how she described those terrifying moments alone.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CARLA CHAPMAN, FELL INTO SINKHOLE: It compresses you. It's hard to -- you can't maneuver out of it. You're wiggling and you're maneuvering more into it.

WILLIAM OSMANSKI, PLANT CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT: And I heard her screaming. I was following the scream. And as I look to the left, all I see was her fingertips sticking out of this hole. That's all I've seen.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CHETRY: That is amazing that she had her cell phone with her.

VELSHI: Wow. Yes.

CHETRY: Because, I mean, what should she have done without that? Aside from a few scratches and bruises, she's said to be doing just fine. A little shaken up. You saw in that first picture that we took, she's hugging the police officer.

VELSHI: That just gives me the creeps just thinking about that.

CHETRY: I know. How can you -- you're standing in your own yard and it swallows you up.

VELSHI: Yes.

CHETRY: And you just happen to have your cell phone.

VELSHI: Wow.

CHETRY: So lucky.

ROMANS: All right. Coming up on this AMERICAN MORNING, what you're going to do when Midge comes for you? The world's smallest drug sniffing dog and her surprise write-up in "Playboy." Playboy, hmmm.

It's 21 minutes past the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CHETRY: Well, this is an amazing discovery. A priceless treasure, truly a rare bible sitting in plain sight at a small church in England. It is an original, the original King James Bible which was created in 1611.

VELSHI: Wow.

CHETRY: Look it up. It's in pretty good shape.

VELSHI: That's excellent.

CHETRY: Survived nearly 400 years. There's only a handful of this edition left. The bible was displayed on a table at the St. Laurence (ph) Church in Hilmarton (ph) for years. I guess they then were then able to discover that it was indeed the original one.

ROMANS: Wow. All right. She's a seven-pound dog with a nose for narcotics, the smallest police dog in the world. Part Chihuahua named Midge. But Midge's ego may be getting a little too big now that she's gracing the pages of "Playboy." Her whole department outside Cleveland was shocked to see the blurb about her in the latest issue, but the locals are happy to have a celebrity amongst them -- among them.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I read almost any magazine with (INAUDIBLE) in it.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I just read it for the articles about dogs.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ROMANS: You know, they imagined it would be more exciting to have a playmate -- actual playmate.

CHETRY: Do we know why she was featured?

ROMANS: It's unclear why she was featured in "Playboy." That's one detail of the who, what, where, when and why of the story. I do not know.

VELSHI: Self-promotional little dog.

CHETRY: So cute.

VELSHI: All right. Top stories coming up right after the break. Stay with us.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CHETRY: We're crossing the half hour right now. It's time for a look at your top stories.

U.S. planes now targeting Libyan ships off the coast of Misrata. Military officials say they did this. They fired at three ships, destroying one, and damaging the other two. These ships were apparently indiscriminately firing at merchant vessels in the port of Misrata. Some dramatic video coming to us courtesy of the Department of Defense.

Meantime, the men accused of raping a Libyan woman have reportedly filed countercharges against her for slander. The woman seen here is Eman al-Obeidi. She told her story to foreign journalists. She came into the hotel and just started crying and telling her story that she'd been raped and tortured for two days at the hands of Gadhafi's soldiers after being picked up at a checkpoint. Journalists who were there including our Nic Robertson noted how she was whisked off by government agents at the hotel in Tripoli. And despite the fact that they say she was allowed to return home, her family says they have still not seen her.

President Obama says the military mission in Libya prevented a humanitarian crisis. He defended his decision to order airstrikes over Libya in a speech to the nation last night.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: For generations, the United States of America has played a unique role as an anchor of global security and as an advocate for human freedom. Mindful of the risks and costs of military action, we are naturally reluctant to use force to solve the world's many challenges. But when our interests and values are at stake, we have a responsibility to act.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CHETRY: And the president said that removing Moammar Gadhafi by force would be a mistake, but reiterated Libya would be better off without him.

And two troubling developments are unfolding in Japan. Highly toxic plutonium has now been discovered in the soil around the Daiichi nuclear power plant. This is further evidence that the reactors at the facility have been severely damaged.

And there's another big problem, the large pools of radioactive water that have to be pumped out of the plant before electricity can be restored to the cooling systems have no place to go. There's so much of it that officials say they simply do not have the storage capacity.

VELSHI: Now, for engineers and plant workers in northeast Japan, it's quite a double-edged sword. They needed that water to pour over those heating -- overheating fuel rods, but the water, as Kiran just said, is now posing the biggest threat. So, what's next?

Joe Cirincione is the president of the Ploughshares Fund, a public grant-making foundation focused on nuclear weapons policy. He joins us live from Washington this morning.

Joseph, thanks very much for being with us.

JOE CIRINCIONE, PRESIDENT, PLOUGHSHARES FUND: My pleasure.

VELSHI: OK. So, here's -- we keep saying -- we keep hearing that there's nowhere for this water to go and the dangers it might have to go into the ocean. Just tell me what this all means.

CIRINCIONE: Sure. So, unlike your basement when it floods, you just pump out in the street -- you can't just pump radioactive water out to the street. You've got to put it some place.

So, they have some holding tanks, but those holding tanks are filling up rapidly, and the water keeps coming. So, all of the tons of water you saw sprayed over last week --

VELSHI: Right.

CIRINCIONE: -- is now radioactive and is filling up in the basements of at least three reactors, hampering rescue efforts, making it more difficult, slowing down all the work and now threatening to send tons and tons of water spilling into the ocean. It's an unfolding crisis. They just have no place to put it.

ROMANS: And they also detected plutonium in the soil near the plant.

CIRINCIONE: Yes.

ROMANS: What is the significance of that?

CIRINCIONE: Yes. Well, this is one of the most deadliest substances known to humankind. A microscopic speck of plutonium in your lungs will give you cancer, several specks can kill you. So, you don't -- there is no safe level of plutonium. So finding it anywhere is dangerous.

It's been very small amounts so far. But it's an indication -- say the Japanese government officials that the containment areas around the reactor core has been breached, either in the reactor vessel itself, or in some of the piping going into the reactor. It's a sign that the radioactivity that's been generated inside the reactor is now coming out to the outside atmosphere, the ground around it. It's a dangerous sign that this could get a lot worse.

CHETRY: Just to clarify now, though, the EPA is saying that if this plutonium is inhaled or ingested, that's when, as you said, it's very dangerous. But that external exposure poses little health risk. Do you agree with that?

CIRINCIONE: That's exactly right. It's a beta emitter. So, you can actually hold plutonium in your hand with a plastic glove and it won't hurt you at all. It won't penetrate the skin. But it's only when ingested that the gamma -- the rays -- beta rays from that plutonium actually come and start causing cancerous growths.

CHETRY: So, does that mean because it's in the soil, the concern is that it would then get into the ground water, perhaps the drinking water and be ingested?

CIRINCIONE: That's exactly right. And there are other radioactive isotopes they're finding, like cesium 137, another highly radioactive substance. So, they're concerned about all of this.

So far -- so far, they've contained most of the radiation. What they're worried about is if the rods continue to meltdown and that uranium turns into a molten mass and breaches the concrete reactor walls, then you would have high radiation throughout the area. That's what they're trying to avoid.

And the reason you see officials so grim-faced these days is they're looking at that possibility. It's looking more and more likely that you'll get a complete meltdown of one or more of these reactors.

VELSHI: Joe, tell me this. You said there are containers for some of the radioactive water and there's this issue of you can't just put it into the ocean. Tell me two this: where -- can they build more containment for this radioactive water? What does it take to do that? And what are the consequences of it going into the ocean? CIRINCIONE: Well, two good questions. One, they're struggling to find some tanks they can move into the site. And as of this morning, they hadn't done that yet. And the one tank they had remaining was half full. So, they're running out of time. They're running out of space.

If you flush it into the ocean, to tell you the truth, the ocean is a great diluter. It would be a disaster for the immediate marine environment and tens of kilometers, maybe hundreds of kilometers out. But the ocean is so large, it would dilute the radioactivity. So, it wouldn't be harmful, for example, for the United States, many thousands of miles away.

ROMANS: Hey, Joe, just real quickly, we only have about 30 seconds left here. What's your -- what's your take on when TEPCO and the government can be playing offense on this thing? It seems as though they are just reacting to crisis after crisis. What -- how do you stop it from devolving?

CIRINCIONE: This isn't a question of intent. They are trying to stop the crisis. It's a question of capability.

The problems are multiplying faster than the fixes they can apply. They're making things up at this point. There's no game book for this. There's no safety plan that tells you to bring fire trucks on the beach and pump sea water into the reactors.

They're desperately trying to keep those reactor rods covered with water to prevent a meltdown and time is not on their side at this point.

ROMANS: You know, I've mentioned -- we said it was like literally firefighting before. We've said that on the air. And the firefighter friend of mine actually said, no, we have very clear plans for all kinds of fires.

CHETRY: Yes. So, when you say it doesn't look good and I know we're running of time, I mean, what does this mean? It doesn't look, meaning that there's just going to be a core meltdown, and just a major, major crisis that we've never seen a nuclear crisis in the world?

CIRINCIONE: We've already never seen this. We have six reactors lined up, three of them are in critical condition with cores that have been partially melting down, and there's seven pools of spent fuel that are in risk of draining and catching on fire or melting down themselves.

We've never seen anything like this. It's already way passed Three Mile Island and we're headed into Chernobyl territory. The best case scenario is that those meltdowns are contained. This all kept inside the concrete boxes that surround the reactors. The worst case is that the molten lava breaches those concrete walls and spills out spreading radioactivity for hundreds of square kilometers.

But remember, this is a Japanese radiation problem. This radiation is not coming over to America. There's no reason for Americans to be concerned at this stage.

CHETRY: Joe Cirincione for us -- thanks for clearing up some of the biggest questions that we had about this. Appreciate it.

CIRINCIONE: My pleasure. Thank you.

ROMANS: All right. To Libya now. One of the loudest critics of the White House's approach to Libya -- why did Senator John McCain say President Obama's speech must have comforted Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi? We'll speak to Senator McCain live, coming up next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ROMANS: President Obama says he wants Libyan dictator Moammar Gadhafi out, but that's not the reason we're dropping bombs. He made the case for war last night in front of the nation and the world. Listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: Of course, there is no question that Libya and the world would be better with Gadhafi out of power. I, along with many other world leaders, have embraced that goal and will actively pursue it through non-military means. But broadening our military mission to include regime change would be a mistake.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ROMANS: Joining us now from Capitol Hill to respond to the president's speech is the ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, former Republican presidential nominee, Senator John McCain.

Senator, thank you for joining us.

You say that part of the speech might have given comfort to Moammar Gadhafi. Why? I mean, we've dropped 192 Tomahawk missiles at $1 million a pop. He's not very comfortable, I think.

SEN. JOHN MCCAIN (R), ARIZONA: I don't think he's very comfortable, but when the president says that it would be a mistake to use military force in order to take him out of power, which is U.S. policy to, quote, "force him to step down," I think is a serious mistake. Could I say that I think the president made a clear and convincing case for our military intervention. It's clear that Benghazi would have been the scene of a massacre.

If we had done the no-fly zone three weeks before, Gadhafi would've fallen. But it is what it is. And now, the anti-Gadhafi rebels are succeeding because we are giving them significant and essential assistance from the air, taking out Gadhafi's ground forces. And we just proved outside of Sirte that without that, the rebels don't match up with the Gadhafi forces.

I hope that Gadhafi goes --

ROMANS: What more should we be doing? What do you think we should be doing more here to get him out? You want him out, how do we do it?

MCCAIN: I think keep -- keep moving. Keep the support of the air to their troops on the ground and to keep taking out Gadhafi's military. And one or two things is going to happen. Gadhafi will leave or be forced out, or we will force him to surrender. But to say that we're not going to use military means to achieve a U.S. policy goal, in my view, is a contradiction with the facts on the ground where we are heavily engaged militarily from the air.

ROMANS: What if our European partners -- if someone were to step forward and negotiate for him to leave the country, maybe promising him that he wouldn't be tried in an international war crimes tribunal -- would that be a solution you could live with?

MCCAIN: Yes, I could live with it. Obviously, I'd love to see him in criminal court. He has the blood of American citizens on his hands as a result of Pan Am 103. But -- and what he's done to his own people probably as important. But --

ROMANS: You want him out? You want him out?

MCCAIN: I want him out. I want him out.

ROMANS: You want him out. Who -- can give you --

MCCAIN: But to say that we are --

ROMANS: Go ahead.

MCCAIN: Anyway, to say we don't want him out -- we rule out the use of military power, I think one contradicts the situation as it exists. We are assisting the rebels with our significant air power capabilities and the factor in determining their success or failure. And at the same time, to say we're not going to take him out through military means.

And finally, could I just say?

ROMANS: Sure.

MCCAIN: Gadhafi remains in power, it'll be a stalemate. We saw a stalemate before after Operation Desert Storm. We saw a no-fly zone and sanctions that lasted for 10 years that Saddam Hussein was able to remain in power. A stalemate is not an acceptable solution.

ROMANS: But, you know, the thing about North Africa and the Middle East is trying to compare one country to another is so difficult. You could take a look at Libya and then talk about Syria. What do we -- you know what I mean? I mean, it's very difficult, the inherent contradictions, as we say, in American foreign policy.

So, let me switch to Syria and Yemen, as well. I mean, you have an American ally president there. How concerned are you about other parts of the region? We're focusing so much on Libya now. But there are more concerns for Americans here. MCCAIN: Well, I think there are significant concerns. But it does not mean just because we used air power in Libya that we are going to use them in other countries. Each country is different.

And I am reluctant to commit U.S. military force in any country unless it is an absolute situation where we are preventing what we've always said we would prevent, a Holocaust, a Rwanda, a Srebrenica. And so, I'm not advocating the use of military -- U.S. military anywhere unless there is a situation that absolutely compels it.

And the president made a strong case for that in Libya last night.

ROMANS: And we prevented Benghazi for being added to that list, you think?

MCCAIN: Absolutely.

ROMANS: All right. Senator John McCain, thank you so much for your time this morning, sir. Thanks.

MCCAIN: Thank you.

ROMANS: Kiran.

CHETRY: Christine, thanks.

Well, severe thunderstorms in the south and in the north now, snow in the north, Rob Marciano's tracking all of it for us. It's been quite an unusual spring. He expects that trend to continue.

Forty-five minutes past the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(WEATHER REPORT)

VELSHI: This morning's top stories are just minutes away, including a bizarre offer for customers at a Radio Shack store. Sign up for the Dish Network and get a free gun. Talk about getting a bang for your buck.

ROMANS: I don't even know what the two things have to do with each other.

OK. A big announcement from Oprah. We now have the date for her final show and that has everyone wondering what she has up her sleeve for the big finale.

CHETRY: Airport scanners, are they safe? There's a new report out that talks about the amount of radiation travelers are being exposed to. Still up in the air, though, is it something we need to worry about?

VELSHI: Fifty minutes after the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK) CHETRY: Fifty-three past the hour right now. We're talking about those full body X-ray scanners in airports. Of course, they've been a center of controversy, but also a source of concern for a little while as the debate shifted from the privacy issues to any potential health risks. Well now a new report by researchers from the University of California finds that although passengers are exposed to some radiation, they shouldn't be too concerned.

Senior medical correspondent Elizabeth Cohen joins us live from Atlanta with details.

So we know you're getting a dose of radiation, I guess you could say, or a small, small dose. But, do they know exactly how much is in these machines and what the effect is?

ELIZABETH COHEN, CNN SENIOR MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: They do. And so what these researchers did is they looked at what the dose of radiation they get is, and they tried to put it into terms that regular people can understand.

So I'm using a term they didn't use but they basically say that the amount of radiation you get is teeny weeny, weeny. Very, very small. So they say, for example, going through one of the scanners they say is equivalent of two minutes on the plane, because you get radiation, you actually get more radiation up high than you do on the ground. So you're getting radiation on an airplane. So two minutes on an airplane, they say, is equal to one of these scanners.

And they hope that putting it in that context will help flyers make choices when they get to the airport, because you don't have to go through a scanner and it might help you make a choice, Kiran.

CHETRY: I got you. So it's not without risk, though?

COHEN: It isn't without risk, and I think that's important for people to know. And so they did a mathematical modeling to show what kind of risk it is. So take a look at this.

Let's say you have 100 million passengers and each of them are seven one-way flights per year. There's probably a lot of people that fly about that amount. So each of them taking seven one-way flights per year, you would have six extra cancers at the end of the day because of the -- because of going through those scanners.

So because of the scanners, you would see six extra cancers among those 100 million people.

CHETRY: What about for children? Is the risk greater for the kids?

COHEN: The risk is greater for kids, both because they're smaller and because they're growing and their bodies are constantly changing.

So they did another mathematical modeling look at five-year-old girls. If you took a group of five-year-old girls, two million five-year-old girls and put them through scanners and they did one round trip flight her week you would see one extra breast cancer when they got older, again, as a result of the scanner. That's what their modeling says. One extra breast cancer per two million five-year-old girls.

CHETRY: All right. And what do the experts say about this? Do the agree about the potential risks involved in the scanners?

COHEN: You know what? Not surprisingly, Kiran, they don't agree. These researchers, in order to do their calculations, they relied on information from the manufacturers of these scanners and there are some researchers who wonder how accurate that is.

So, for example, one researcher at Columbia, he thinks that maybe the risk is 10 times my higher than what the manufacturers say, but he is quick to point out it's still it's a really, really a low risk but he does think it's higher than what this study says.

CHETRY: I got you. All right, Elizabeth Cohen clearing up some of the concerns about going through them. And, of course, you can always opt for the pat down, the enhanced pat down instead. I know neither option is fun or ideal, but again, at least putting it in perspective for us.

Elizabeth Cohen, thanks so much.

COHEN: Thanks.

We're going to have a quick break. Top stories coming up in just a minute.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Content and programming copyright 2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP.    ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.    This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.      

Document CNLM000020110329e73t0002t



USA
Supreme Court wrestles with sheer size of suit against Wal-Mart

Warren Richey      
Warren Richey Staff writer      
916 words
29 March 2011
The Christian Science Monitor
CHSM
ALL
English
© 2011    Christian Science Monitor.    Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.    All Rights Reserved.        

Supreme Court justices ask: How can you determine damages for each woman in the class-action suit against Wal-Mart? Some 1.5 million women are suing Wal-Mart on sex-discrimination claims.

Members of the US Supreme Court waded into a thick, muddy morass of litigation on Tuesday and confronted a novel question.

Is a computerized formula a better guarantor of justice than an old-fashioned hearing with live testimony in a courtroom with a judge?

The issue arose in the historic gender discrimination case against the nation's largest private employer, Wal-Mart.

At issue during oral argument was whether the lower courts properly allowed the case to move forward as a single, massive class- action lawsuit rather than breaking it up into smaller lawsuits, or dismissing it altogether.

The complaint was filed in 2001 on behalf of more than 1.5 million current and former women employees who were allegedly paid less and promoted less often than their male counterparts at Wal- Mart.

The case is being closely watched because the high court will likely use it as a way to bring clarity and certainty to an area of the law (class-action lawsuits) that is becoming increasingly swamp- like.

Class-action lawsuits are an essential feature of the US legal system, allowing individual victims to band together and have a fighting chance in court.

The average claim for a female employee at Wal-Mart is estimated at $1,100. An individual worker is unlikely to hire a lawyer to pursue such a case. But if lawyers are able to identify a pattern of discrimination that affects a larger number of workers, a class- action lawsuit will provide greater legal clout against a corporate giant like Wal-Mart.

The computerized-formula debate

That's just half the case. On the other side, is the issue of how the courts can guarantee that Wal-Mart will receive a fair opportunity to defend itself while facing more than a million plaintiffs seeking billions of dollars in back pay and punitive damages.

That's the issue that arose about halfway through the hour-long oral argument on Tuesday.

It came with a question by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg - who prior to joining the high court was a pioneer in the fight for women's rights.

"What seems to me is a very serious problem in this case is: How do you work out the back pay?" Justice Ginsburg asked Joseph Sellers, the lawyer for Wal-Mart's women employees.

In an individual case of discrimination, a judge would determine back pay by holding a hearing and taking testimony from a range of managers and workers.

In a class action lawsuit where plaintiffs share a common injury, courts are asked to fashion a remedy for all class members. Because of the large numbers of women in the Wal-Mart case and their differing circumstances, individual hearings pose substantial obstacles.

Mr. Sellers said that instead of individual hearings, the trial judge would rely on the plaintiff's computerized formula and analysis of each female employee. The formula would take into account job performance, seniority, and other variables and calculate an appropriate level of back pay owed by Wal-Mart.

Sellers said the plaintiffs' formula would produce a "very precise comparison, in a way that having individual hearings relying on hazy memories, post hoc rationalizations, doesn't."

Justice Elena Kagan, echoing Justice Ginsburg's concern, repeated Ginsburg's question in a slightly different way. "When is the formula approach right and when is the individual-hearings approach right?"

Sellers said the trial judge in the case had commented that "the sheer number of class members would make the administration of individual hearings difficult."

Ginsburg shot back: "I thought he said 'impossible.' "

"He may have said 'impossible,' " Sellers conceded. The lawyer added that the trial judge had determined that "the use of a formula would be more reliable than individualized hearings."

Defending against a formula?

Justice Sonia Sotomayor asked how, if no individualized hearings were to be held, would Wal-Mart defend itself against a computerized formula?

"Wal-Mart will have ample opportunity through the arguments over which variables to use [in the computerized formula]," Sellers said.

Justice Sotomayor responded: "What you're saying is we're going to preclude them from doing anything but offering a mathematical model."

Justice Antonin Scalia asked if a computerized formula would be more reliable than a hearing.

"I think it is," Sellers responded. In a hearing, Wal-Mart managers would be called to testify and "speculate about what they did 10 years earlier, with no records to cross examine them on," he said.

"That is not the model for a reliable adjudication," Sellers said.

Justice Scalia wondered aloud, sarcastically, whether computerized models might not be the best way to try old cases.

"Is this really due process," he asked.

In his rebuttal, Wal-Mart's lawyer, Theodore Boutrous, said that if the court embraced Sellers' view of a case based on computerized formulas rather than hearings, Wal-Mart would never have a chance to prove that it didn't discriminate against a woman who was seeking back pay.

"That is not a process known to our jurisprudence," he said. "It doesn't comport with due process."

The case is Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., v. Betty Dukes. A decision is expected by the end of June.

Document CHSM000020110330e73t0000j



USA
Wal-Mart case highlights status of women in US workplace

Mark Trumbull      
Mark Trumbull Staff writer      
617 words
29 March 2011
The Christian Science Monitor
CHSM
ALL
English
© 2011    Christian Science Monitor.    Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.    All Rights Reserved.        

The Supreme Court is considering a class-action lawsuit from more than one million women claiming sex discrimination. Here is a snapshot of how women are faring in the workplace.

The US Supreme Court heard arguments Tuesday on a potentially massive discrimination lawsuit by female employees of Walmart. The court will decide whether the women's allegations on pay and promotions should be treated as a class-action lawsuit, a key factor in determining the retailer's financial exposure if it eventually loses in court.

With this high-profile case in the news, here's a by-the-numbers look at how women are faring in the US economy in general.

1. Pay gap with men

Last year a female worker typically earned 81 cents for every $1 earned by a male counterpart, according to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). That gap isn't as big as it once was, but some researchers argue the rift reflects a big unequal-pay problem.

"Even after controlling for hours, occupation, parenthood, and other factors known to affect earnings, the research indicates that one-quarter of the pay gap remains unexplained and is likely due to sex discrimination," contends the American Association of University Women Educational Foundation, citing evidence from women who graduated from college in 1992-93.

Gender gaps exist for full-time workers, according to that 2007 study, even in fields where women make up a majority of employees, such as administrative support.

In some occupations women out-earn men, the BLS finds. Food preparation and serving workers who are women earn 112 percent of what male counterparts earn. At the other end of the scale, women financial advisers earn 58 percent less than men in that field.

2. Unemployment compared with men

The recession hit men harder than women, in terms of unemployment. The jobless rate for women didn't go above 9 percent, and now stands at 8.5 percent (below the national average of 8.9 percent in February). The positive news for men is that their jobless rate has come down to 9.3 percent, from a peak of 11.4 percent in late 2009.

3. The glass ceiling

Women held 36.5 percent of all managerial positions, including mid-level and senior positions, in 2009, according to the US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). That number is up from about 34 percent in 2000. Among senior-level officials and managers, 28 percent are women.

4. Discrimination cases

Sex-discrimination charges accounted for 29 percent of all charges filed with the EEOC in its 2010 fiscal year. That number held near 30 or 31 percent for the previous 10 years. In all, 29,029 charges of sex discrimination were filed in 2010.

5. Women in the workforce

Some 58 percent of women over age 16 are in the labor force (either working or seeking employment), versus a little over 70 percent of men. That's at the high end of the spectrum for advanced industrial nations, but a bit lower than in a few nations such as Canada, Sweden, and the Netherlands (using 2009 numbers), according to BLS research.

6. Wives who out-earn their husbands

Among married-couple families in which the wife had earnings from work, 33 percent of the wives earned more than their husbands in 2006, the BLS reported in 2009. This includes cases in which husbands had no jobs as well as lower-paying jobs. That's up from 24 percent in 1987.

In households where both spouses work, 26 percent of wives earned more than their husbands in 2006.

Document CHSM000020110330e73t0000e

Legal Review
Supreme Court hears Wal-Mart gender bias case; Decision will resound across wide swath of law; CLASS ACTION

by Tony Mauro and Marcia Coyle tmauro@alm.com      
989 words
29 March 2011
Broward Daily Business Review
BDBR
A3
Volume 52; Issue 74
English
Copyright 2011 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

Among their hundreds of pages of dueling arguments, the companies and organizations supporting or opposing Wal-Mart in its landmark U.S. Supreme Court challenge agree on one point: Whatever the justices say about class action certification will resound across a wide swath of law, not just employment discrimination.

Ruling in favor of the class of current and former female workers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce warns, "has the potential to dramatically increase the class action exposure of the chamber's members and all companies doing business in the United States."

But advocates on the other side say a ruling for Wal-Mart could effectively close the door on class action lawsuits as an efficient way to prosecute claims instead of hundreds or thousands of repetitive trials — especially, but not only, in civil rights cases.

"If Wal-Mart has its way, it will be impossible to bring its employees fundamental paycheck fairness," said Sarah Crawford of the National Partnership for Women and Families. Her brief cites Brown v. Board of Education as a prime example of class action litigation that must be preserved.

The 29 amicus curiae briefs in the largest job discrimination case in history — potentially involving 500,000 to 1.6 million women — have attracted a wide array of law firms and lawyers, from Supreme Court veterans Roy Englert Jr. of Robbins Russell Englert Orseck Untereiner & Sauber, Arnold & Porter's Lisa Blatt and Jeffrey Lamken of MoloLamken, to noted academics like Arthur Miller of New York University Law School and civil rights firms like Chicago's Miner Barnhill & Galland, which once counted Barack Obama as a junior associate.

Even though the underlying lawsuit tells the story of women who work for the nation's largest retailer, the briefs are mostly devoid of personal details. Instead, they focus on the federal rules of civil procedure that govern class action lawsuits.

IN SEARCH OF SETTLEMENT

At issue is whether plaintiffs can use Rule 23(b)(2), which specifically provides for injunctive and other nonmonetary relief, to seek money damages and whether the Dukes class certification met the requirements, including commonality of interest within the class. When it granted review last December, the court excluded from the case constitutional issues involving due process and the Seventh Amendment.

The giant retailer, represented by Theodore Boutrous Jr. of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher, argues the answer to both questions in the case is "no." It is supported by an array of mega-companies, such as General Electric, Intel, Microsoft and DuPont, as well as by such conservative-probusiness organizations as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Washington Legal Foundation and the Defense Research Institute.

The 15 amicus briefs supporting Wal-Mart tackle chunks of the retailer's main arguments, emphasizing for example that class certification in this case violated the Rules Enabling Act by modifying substantive rights under Title VII, the nation's major anti-job bias law. They also argue the district court and 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals erred by failing to conduct a Daubert analysis of the testimony of the plaintiffs' chief expert. More broadly, they assert the plaintiffs fail to meet class certification requirements of typical claims, adequate representation and common issues.

By using overall statistics and social science research, the Costco brief argues the Wal-Mart plaintiffs were able to "gloss over the absence of any widespread discrimination at the level where employment decisions actually occur" at individual stores. David Ross of Seyfarth Shaw wrote the brief.

The other side, led by Joseph Sellers of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll, counters all those points, arguing that apart from size, the Wal-Mart suit is a typical class action that meets all the requirements.

"There is nothing in Rule 23 that says size matters," said John Vail of the Center for Constitutional Litigation, which filed a brief for the plaintiffs.

The plaintiff side also reject Wal-Mart's argument that its employment decision-making is so decentralized that the class does not meet requirements of typicality and common issues. That decentralization, the plaintiff amici insist, is itself a companywide policy that encourages bias and can be attacked through class actions.

One of the plaintiff amici also targets a theme that runs through several of the Wal-Mart briefs: that class actions like this one are intended mainly to force employers into "blackmail settlements" to avoid ruinous class action liability. A group of law and economics professors, citing empirical studies, assert civil rights class actions are rarely filed or certified, and the notion of "blackmail settlements" is a myth. The brief was authored by Robert Libman of Miner Barnhill & Galland, Obama's old firm.

AMONG THE MISSING

Missing from the lineup on either side is the solicitor general of the United States.

Arnold & Porter's Blatt, formerly an assistant to the solicitor general, noted in an amicus brief on behalf of the Retail Litigation Center supporting Wal-Mart, that the federal government has made some of the same arguments as Wal-Mart when it has opposed class certification as a defendant in other discrimination lawsuits.

But in an interview, Blatt said the government does not file as amicus in class action cases because of the tension inherent in its dual roles as enforcer of antidiscrimination laws and as the country's largest employer to whom all those laws apply.

"The government clearly has an interest in the issue presented in Wal-Mart on the certification question, but it also has an interest in enforcement of Title VII," she said.

Tony Mauro is U.S. Supreme Court correspondent for ALM, parent of the Daily Business Review. Marcia Coyle reports for the National Law Journal, an ALM affiliate of the Daily Business Review.      

Document BDBR000020110329e73t00008



Huge Wal-Mart women's bias lawsuit hits possible block by skeptical Supreme Court justices

By MARK SHERMAN      
Associated Press      
825 words
29 March 2011
05:26 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2011.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

WASHINGTON (AP) - The Supreme Court appears ready to block a massive sex discrimination lawsuit against Wal-Mart on behalf of up to 1.6 million women, and that could make it harder for other workers nationwide to bring class-action claims against large employers.

The 10-year-old lawsuit, argued in lively exchanges at the court Tuesday, claims that Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world's largest employer, favors men over women in pay and promotions. Billions of dollars are at stake if it is allowed to go forward.

The case also could affect the future of other class-action lawsuits that pool modest individual claims into a single action that creates the potential for a large judgment and increases the pressure on businesses to settle.

In Tuesday's arguments, several justices suggested they were troubled by the case and lower court decisions against Bentonville, Ark.-based Wal-Mart. Estimates of how many women could be included in the lawsuit run from 500,000 to 1.6 million.

Justice Anthony Kennedy, often a key vote on the high court, said the women's argument points in apparently conflicting directions.

"You said this is a culture where Arkansas knows, the headquarters knows, everything that's going on," Kennedy said to Joseph Sellers, the women's lawyer. "Then in the next breath, you say, well, now these supervisors have too much discretion. It seems to me there's an inconsistency there, and I'm just not sure what the unlawful policy is."

Sellers said that lower courts had been persuaded by statistical and other evidence put forth so far in the lawsuit. He said Wal-Mart's strong corporate culture stereotypes women as less aggressive than men and that translates into individual pay and promotion decisions at the more than 4,300 Wal-Mart and Sam's Club stores across the country.

"The decisions are informed by the values the company provides," Sellers said.

Justice Antonin Scalia said he felt "whipsawed" by Sellers' description. "Well, which is it?" Scalia asked. Either individual managers are on their own, "or else a strong corporate culture tells them what to do."

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said that at this stage of the lawsuit, the issue is not proving discrimination but showing enough evidence to go forward. "We're talking about getting a foot in the door," Ginsburg said, a standard she called not hard to meet.

Ginsburg, who made her name as a lawyer by bringing discrimination claims, said it was possible that Wal-Mart could refute the claims at a trial.

The court's other two female justices, Elena Kagan and Sonia Sotomayor, and Justice Stephen Breyer also appeared inclined to allow the lawsuit to proceed.

But several of their more conservative colleagues appeared to agree with Theodore Boutrous Jr., representing Wal-Mart, that even subjecting the company to a trial would be unfair.

That split among the justices raised the prospect of an ideologically divided ruling by the court this summer.

Boutrous said the class-action nature of the case deprives the company of its legal rights because it is being forced to defend the treatment of female employees regardless of the jobs they hold or where they work.

"There is absolutely no way there can be a fair process here," Boutrous said.

He pointed to a group of at least 544 women who serve as store managers who "are alleged to be both discriminators and victims."

Two of the named plaintiffs, Christine Kwapnoski and Betty Dukes, attended the argument. Kwapnoski is an assistant manager at a Sam's Club in Concord, Calif. Dukes is a greeter at the Wal-Mart in Pittsburg, Calif.

Their situations were discussed only briefly, with Boutrous noting how different they were as a way to argue they should not be dealt with in the same lawsuit.

Business interests have lined up with Wal-Mart while civil rights, women's and consumer groups have sided with the women plaintiffs.

Both sides have painted the case as extremely consequential. The business community has said that a ruling for the women would lead to a flood of class-action lawsuits based on vague evidence. Supporters of the women say that if the court sides with Wal-Mart, it could remove a valuable weapon for fighting all sorts of discrimination.

David Sanford, who represents plaintiffs in other class-action cases, said after the arguments that the court seemed inclined to rule against the Wal-Mart women. Sanford said such a decision could "have implications for class actions more generally, making it more difficult for women and minority groups to enjoy equality and fair treatment in the workplace."

The Obama administration is not taking part in the case, although it was lobbied by both sides.

The case is Wal-Mart Stores Inc. v. Dukes, 10-277.

7      

Document APRS000020110329e73t0020j



Wal-Mart: Where even small numbers are big numbers; The behemoth retailer is being sued for    discrimination  by female employees. And the case is big.

By Jena McGregor      
518 words
29 March 2011
Washington Post.com
WPCOM
English
Copyright 2011, The Washington Post Co.    All Rights Reserved.      

Like seemingly everything associated with Wal-Mart, the behemoth retailer that is being sued for discrimination by female employees, the case is big. Very big. Whether in terms of numbers (more than 1 million women could become plaintiffs if the Supreme Court allows the case to move forward), potential settlements (Wal-Mart could be on the hook for more than $1 billion), or possible consequences (however the case is decided, it's likely to have wide-ranging implications on job bias suits in the future), the Dukes v. Wal-Mart decision is tremendous.

As a result, even the numbers the retailer is using to defend its case are extraordinary. The company's lawyers have said that choosing whether or not to grant class action status (the decision before the Supreme Court is just that—not if Wal-Martdiscriminated or not) should be decided on more than just "statistics, sociology, and anecdotes." Some 90 percent of the company's 3,400 stores at the time of a lower court's decision, Wal-Mart has rebutted, do not have statistically significant differences in male and female employees' pay.

That infers, however, that pay differences do or could exist at 10 percent of its stores. That might be a small ratio, but at Wal-Mart, even small percentages yield eye-popping numbers. Ten percent of its stores means that 340 locations may have had differences in pay; 10 percent of the women in question is still potentially 100,000 people.

Even though that number is actually high, Wal-Mart seems more focused on fighting the class action status of the case than the impression that there is any discrimination going on at its stores. While the company has said that the anecdotes, such as meetings being held at a Hooter's restaurant or an employee being told she didn't get the same raise as her male colleague because he had a family to support, do not reflect company practices or policies, it has also blamed any pay differences on decisions made at the local level.

The company may be wise to fight the first battle first, trying to avoid the class action and defend its practices at the corporate level. The numbers at stake are just that big. As are the consequences: More than 20 other major corporations have filed briefs in support of Wal-Mart, and in fear that a Supreme Court decision in favor of the plaintiffs could open the floodgates for similar class actions.

Still, if the company is not careful, the impression left on many people may not be the one Wal-Mart wants. Discrimination may happen every day in big companies; but even if its presence is minor, it remains a major issue companies should work to stamp out entirely. No matter their size.

More from On Leadership

The daughter effect

Debunking the CEO myth

Why the current debate over CEO pay is the wrong one

Document WPCOM00020120909e73t00cqv



Walmart Statement Regarding Supreme Court Oral Argument in Dukes Case

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.; PR Newswire      
131 words
29 March 2011
02:48 PM
PR Newswire (U.S.)
PRN
English
Copyright ©    2011    PR Newswire Association LLC.    All Rights Reserved.          

WASHINGTON, March 29, 2011 /PRNewswire/ --

"We were pleased to be able to show the Court that Walmart had a strong non-discrimination policy in place well before the lawsuit was filed, and to illustrate the other flaws in the plaintiffs' theories.

"Walmart is working hard every day to ensure more women are represented in our management ranks. We continue to have strong anti-discrimination policies in place, a strong record of advancement of women and we are always looking to be better."

--Gisel Ruiz, Executive Vice President, People, Walmart U.S.

http://walmartstores.com/reporter

SOURCE Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

Greg Rossiter, 1-800-331-0085, for Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.      

Document PRN0000020110329e73t00ahw

Legal Review
Supreme Court hears Wal-Mart gender bias case; Decision will resound across wide swath of law; CLASS ACTION

by Tony Mauro and Marcia Coyle tmauro@alm.com      
989 words
29 March 2011
Palm Beach Daily Business Review
PBDBR
A3
Volume 57; Issue 119
English
Copyright 2011 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

Among their hundreds of pages of dueling arguments, the companies and organizations supporting or opposing Wal-Mart in its landmark U.S. Supreme Court challenge agree on one point: Whatever the justices say about class action certification will resound across a wide swath of law, not just employment discrimination.

Ruling in favor of the class of current and former female workers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce warns, "has the potential to dramatically increase the class action exposure of the chamber's members and all companies doing business in the United States."

But advocates on the other side say a ruling for Wal-Mart could effectively close the door on class action lawsuits as an efficient way to prosecute claims instead of hundreds or thousands of repetitive trials — especially, but not only, in civil rights cases.

"If Wal-Mart has its way, it will be impossible to bring its employees fundamental paycheck fairness," said Sarah Crawford of the National Partnership for Women and Families. Her brief cites Brown v. Board of Education as a prime example of class action litigation that must be preserved.

The 29 amicus curiae briefs in the largest job discrimination case in history — potentially involving 500,000 to 1.6 million women — have attracted a wide array of law firms and lawyers, from Supreme Court veterans Roy Englert Jr. of Robbins Russell Englert Orseck Untereiner & Sauber, Arnold & Porter's Lisa Blatt and Jeffrey Lamken of MoloLamken, to noted academics like Arthur Miller of New York University Law School and civil rights firms like Chicago's Miner Barnhill & Galland, which once counted Barack Obama as a junior associate.

Even though the underlying lawsuit tells the story of women who work for the nation's largest retailer, the briefs are mostly devoid of personal details. Instead, they focus on the federal rules of civil procedure that govern class action lawsuits.

IN SEARCH OF SETTLEMENT

At issue is whether plaintiffs can use Rule 23(b)(2), which specifically provides for injunctive and other nonmonetary relief, to seek money damages and whether the Dukes class certification met the requirements, including commonality of interest within the class. When it granted review last December, the court excluded from the case constitutional issues involving due process and the Seventh Amendment.

The giant retailer, represented by Theodore Boutrous Jr. of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher, argues the answer to both questions in the case is "no." It is supported by an array of mega-companies, such as General Electric, Intel, Microsoft and DuPont, as well as by such conservative-probusiness organizations as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Washington Legal Foundation and the Defense Research Institute.

The 15 amicus briefs supporting Wal-Mart tackle chunks of the retailer's main arguments, emphasizing for example that class certification in this case violated the Rules Enabling Act by modifying substantive rights under Title VII, the nation's major anti-job bias law. They also argue the district court and 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals erred by failing to conduct a Daubert analysis of the testimony of the plaintiffs' chief expert. More broadly, they assert the plaintiffs fail to meet class certification requirements of typical claims, adequate representation and common issues.

By using overall statistics and social science research, the Costco brief argues the Wal-Mart plaintiffs were able to "gloss over the absence of any widespread discrimination at the level where employment decisions actually occur" at individual stores. David Ross of Seyfarth Shaw wrote the brief.

The other side, led by Joseph Sellers of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll, counters all those points, arguing that apart from size, the Wal-Mart suit is a typical class action that meets all the requirements.

"There is nothing in Rule 23 that says size matters," said John Vail of the Center for Constitutional Litigation, which filed a brief for the plaintiffs.

The plaintiff side also reject Wal-Mart's argument that its employment decision-making is so decentralized that the class does not meet requirements of typicality and common issues. That decentralization, the plaintiff amici insist, is itself a companywide policy that encourages bias and can be attacked through class actions.

One of the plaintiff amici also targets a theme that runs through several of the Wal-Mart briefs: that class actions like this one are intended mainly to force employers into "blackmail settlements" to avoid ruinous class action liability. A group of law and economics professors, citing empirical studies, assert civil rights class actions are rarely filed or certified, and the notion of "blackmail settlements" is a myth. The brief was authored by Robert Libman of Miner Barnhill & Galland, Obama's old firm.

AMONG THE MISSING

Missing from the lineup on either side is the solicitor general of the United States.

Arnold & Porter's Blatt, formerly an assistant to the solicitor general, noted in an amicus brief on behalf of the Retail Litigation Center supporting Wal-Mart, that the federal government has made some of the same arguments as Wal-Mart when it has opposed class certification as a defendant in other discrimination lawsuits.

But in an interview, Blatt said the government does not file as amicus in class action cases because of the tension inherent in its dual roles as enforcer of antidiscrimination laws and as the country's largest employer to whom all those laws apply.

"The government clearly has an interest in the issue presented in Wal-Mart on the certification question, but it also has an interest in enforcement of Title VII," she said.

Tony Mauro is U.S. Supreme Court correspondent for ALM, parent of the Daily Business Review. Marcia Coyle reports for the National Law Journal, an ALM affiliate of the Daily Business Review.      

Document PBDBR00020110329e73t00008



Business & Technology
Wal-Mart facing huge    discrimination  lawsuit

Ottawa Citizen      
70 words
29 March 2011
Ottawa Citizen
OTCT
Final
D1 / Front
English
Copyright © 2011 Ottawa Citizen      

Wal-Mart is facing possibly the largest sex discrimination lawsuit in American history, involving potential claims from more than a million women. The Supreme Court will rule today whether the case can go ahead as a classaction lawsuit. The retailer is accused of paying women less than men for decades and of discriminating against them when promotions were made.

Document OTCT000020110329e73t0002m



WSJ: Wal-Mart Discrimination  Suit Might Not Survive Supreme Court Review

By Jess Bravin and Ann Zimmerman      
Of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL      
801 words
29 March 2011
11:52 AM
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.      

WASHINGTON--A sex discrimination class-action against Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) appeared unlikely to survive after Tuesday's Supreme Court arguments, where justices suggested the lawsuit was unfair both to the retail giant and the many women who allegedly were victimized.

The suit, filed in 2001 on behalf of current and former workers whose numbers now total almost three million, alleges that Wal-Mart systematically paid women less than men and provided them fewer opportunities for promotion. Wal-Mart denies the claims and says it has a strict antidiscrimination policy.

But several justices challenged the lawsuit's premise, which alleges that Wal-Mart maintained a "pattern and practice" of discrimination -- a legal standard for liability -- by granting local managers wide discretion in employment decisions.

(This story and related background material will be available on The Wall Street Journal website, WSJ.com.)

"I'm getting whipsawed here," Justice Antonin Scalia told Joseph Sellers, the attorney representing a half-dozen women who seek to represent the massive class.

Justice Anthony Kennedy seconded that view. On the one hand, the plaintiffs allege that "Arkansas knows everything," he said, referencing the corporation's home state. But on the other, individual managers have too much autonomy.

Mr. Sellers argued that the two pieces fit together, in that the corporate policy gave local managers unfettered discretion to underpay women. Prejudice against women employees, he said was part of a corporate culture the company calls "the Wal-Mart Way."

Because the plaintiffs' claims are based on statistical evidence of pay and promotions that favor men over women, Justice Samuel Alito asked if that meant "every single company" in the country could potentially be in violation of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits employment discrimination. Possibly so, Mr. Sellers said.

Liberal justices were more open to the plaintiffs' theory. "Excessive subjectivity" in employment decisions could qualify as an unlawful practice, Justice Elena Kagan suggested.

But Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg questioned whether plaintiffs, seeking a procedural advantage, had cut thousands of alleged victims out of potential remedies.

The suit was filed under a provision that makes it easier to certify a class action and obtain an injunction against misconduct, but limits compensatory damages.

Justice Ginsburg said that for women who no longer work at Wal-Mart, those compensatory damages for past wrongs are more important than ensuring future opportunities at the company.

The plaintiffs are seeking back pay and punitive damages that could total billions of dollars if the class-action lawsuit is allowed to continue with its current scope.

The question before the court wasn't whether Wal-Martdiscriminated, but rather whether the millions of alleged victims, who worked in 170 job classifications across 3,400 stores, have enough in common that their claims can be fairly decided in single action. The plaintiffs allege that subjective personnel decisions on the store level and an absence of job postings for job promotions exist within a corporate culture "rife with gender stereotypes," according to a brief filed with the Supreme Court.

The initial suit was filed in June 2001 by six former and current female hourly workers and managers who accused the world's largest retailer of systematically denying women workers equal pay and opportunities for promotion.

For example, the women said they made less than men doing the same jobs, although those men had equal or less experience.

Others said men who had been at the company less time were promoted into manager positions they were denied.

In June 2004, U.S. District Judge Martin Jenkins, in San Francisco, granted the case class status. The Ninth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco voted 6-5 to permit the class action to proceed, but modified some aspects of the trial judge's ruling.

The appeals court said that women who left Wal-Mart before the original suit was filed in June 2001 shouldn't be considered part of the class, but left it up to a trial judge to consider whether to certify their claims under a different legal standard. It also ruled that the trial judge must use new legal standards in considering whether the women could pursue punitive damages.

On average the women are entitled to about $1,100 in back pay.

In addition to the named plaintiffs, there are depositions from more than 100 women who tell similar stories. "We talked to hundreds more, but many were too scared to stand up," says Betty Lawrence, one of the plaintiffs lawyers on the case. "They didn't have a lot of job choices as it was and the thought of possibly losing their jobs terrified them." [ 03-29-11 1323ET ]

Document DJ00000020110329e73t000ei

Wal-Mart

431 words
29 March 2011
CTV News - PM
CTVN
English
© Copyright 2011 CTV Television Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

Host(s): LLOYD ROBERTSON

LLOYD ROBERTSON: The biggest retail company in the whole world could be facing one of the biggest class action lawsuits in history. Today a group of women went before the US Supreme Court to ask that a sex discrimination case on behalf of one million women be allowed to proceed. Canadian employees aren't part of the action, but it's a safe bet they're keeping a close watch on the outcome. CTV's Washington bureau chief Paul Workman has more. PAUL WORKMAN (Reporter): It's been 10 years since a part-time Wal-Mart cashier complained that men were getting better pay and better promotions than women. Her name is Betty Dukes.

BETTY DUKES (Wal-Mart Plaintiff): I brought this case because I believe that there was a pattern of discrimination at Wal-Mart, not just in my store, but I believe it is across the country.

WORKMAN: That one case could become the largest class action suit in US history if the Supreme Court allows it to proceed. A million women against the biggest retailer in the world.

THEODORE BOUTROUS (Wal-Mart Lawyer): The lawyers on the other side went too far when they tried to sweep every person in the country, every woman in the country into this class. WORKMAN: The issues are huge on both sides. For Wal-Mart, the potential for a payout in the billions, and if the women lose...

MIKE SELMI (Law Professor): Depending on how they frame it, but it would be a tremendous setback for class action cases. It might be the end of employment discrimination class actions.

WORKMAN: Inside the court of law, and the case being watched very closely, and outside testimony in the court of public opinion. Gisel Ruiz who rose up the ranks to become a Wal-Mart vice president.

GISEL RUIZ (Wal-Mart Vice President): I've had a very positive experience at Wal-Mart, like thousands of other women.

WORKMAN: And Chris Kwapnowski, once told raises go to men with families to support.

CHRIS KWAPNOWSKI (Wal-Mart Plaintiff): At that time I was a single mom with two smaller children, and I also had a family to support.

WORKMAN: Wal-Mart with 3,400 stores in the US. Think big and you'll understand what's at stake here. The court will bring down its ruling in June with profound implications no matter what it decides. And, by the way, this lawsuit does not apply to women who work for Wal-Mart in Canada. Paul Workman, CTV News, Washington.

Document CTVN000020110330e73t00009



Wal-Mart opposes big sex-bias case at US top court

507 words
29 March 2011
06:01 AM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

* Ruling expected by late June could affect other cases

* Plaintiff says: "A class action gives us a fair shot"

* Women's groups plan rally; businesses support Wal-Mart

By James Vicini

WASHINGTON, March 29 (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc will argue on Tuesday that the U.S. Supreme Court should halt the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history by female employees who seek billions of dollars.

The female employees will counter that their lawsuit should be allowed to go to trial against the world's largest retailer for allegedly paying women less and giving them fewer promotions than men at 3,400 U.S. stores since late 1998.

At issue in the Supreme Court showdown is whether the small group of women who began the lawsuit 10 years ago can represent a huge nationwide class of current and former employees that could total millions of women.

The Supreme Court's ruling, expected by late June, could change the legal landscape for workplace and other class-action lawsuits, affecting many other cases, including a similar one against Costco Wholesale Corp .

Wal-Mart's attorney, Theodore Boutrous, who will argue the case, said female employees in different jobs and in different stores do not have enough in common to be in a single class-action lawsuit.

Joseph Sellers, an attorney for the women, will argue the decision by a judge and a U.S. appeals court to certify the class was based on extensive evidence, and should be upheld.

Betty Dukes, a Wal-Mart employee in Pittsburg, California, for whom the case has been named, planned to attend oral arguments, a spokeswoman for the plaintiffs said.

"Without a class action, I wouldn't be able to do anything about the discrimination. Wal-Mart is just too big. A class action gives us a fair shot. That is all we ask for," Dukes said.

Women's groups plan to rally outside the court to show their support for the female employees. They said a Wal-Mart victory could signal a significant retreat for women's rights in the workplace.

Businesses said a Wal-Mart defeat could make every large corporation vulnerable to sweeping allegations of employment bias and would water down class-action requirements.

Large class-action lawsuits make it easier for big groups of plaintiffs to sue corporations and they have led to huge payouts by tobacco, oil and food companies.

Companies have sought to limit such lawsuits to individual or small groups of plaintiffs. The Supreme Court, with a conservative majority, has often agreed, dating back to 1997.

Legal experts and financial analysts said even if Wal-Mart loses in the Supreme Court and at trial, the retailer with more than $400 billion in sales and $16 billion in net income last year has enough cash to make a big payout.

The Supreme Court case is Wal-Mart Stores Inc v. Betty Dukes, No. 10-277.

(Editing by Christopher Wilson)

WALMART-LAWSUIT/      

Document LBA0000020110329e73t00067



FACTBOX-Key facts in Wal-Mart discrimination  case

377 words
29 March 2011
06:01 AM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

March 29 (Reuters) - The U.S. Supreme Court hears arguments on Tuesday in the largest sex-discrimination class-action lawsuit ever as Wal-Mart Stores Inc's female employees seek billions of dollars from the giant retailer.

Here are some facts and allegations that have emerged during the 10-year-old lawsuit.

* A Wal-Mart senior human resources official saw nothing wrong with business meetings at Hooters restaurants, known for its buxom waitresses, lawyers for the plaintiffs said. Numerous Wal-Mart managers admitted they regularly went to strip clubs when attending company management meetings.

Theodore Boutrous, Wal-Mart's lead attorney in the appeal, dismissed such anecdotes as misleading and said they do not reflect company policy. "It's so far from being representative that it's absurd," he told reporters.

* One woman who brought the lawsuit, Christine Kwapnoski, said a male manager "told her to 'doll up,' wear some makeup and to dress a little better." She said he frequently yelled and screamed at her and other female employees, but seldom did that with male employees.

* Wal-Mart said it operated under a general policy that forbids discrimination, encourages diversity and ensures fair treatment. Founded in 1962 and with headquarters in Bentonville, Arkansas, the retailer employs more than 1.4 million people in the United States, the nation's largest private employer. Wal-Mart had about $419 billion in net sales last year and reported $16.4 billion in net income.

* Founder Sam Walton said in 1992 that Wal-Mart's "old way" of requiring managers to move frequently "put good, smart women at a disadvantage" and was unnecessary, but lawyers for the plaintiffs said the policy remained in effect until after the lawsuit was filed in 2001.

* Wal-Mart said its expert concluded that more than 90 percent of its stores showed no statistical difference in hourly pay rates between men and women with similar jobs.

* The federal judge in San Francisco who originally granted class-action status for the lawsuit was U.S. District Court Judge Martin Jenkins, who was appointed to the bench by President Bill Clinton in 1997.

(Reporting by James Vicini in Washington, Editing by Will Dunham)

WALMART-LAWSUIT/ (FACTBOX)      

Document LBA0000020110329e73t00064



UPDATE 3-Wal-Mart gets sympathetic US court bias case hearing

831 words
29 March 2011
06:01 AM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

* Woman says Wal-Mart manager told her to "doll up"

* Protesters rally outside the Supreme Court

* Ruling expected by late June could affect other cases

(Adds share price, Wal-Mart statement)

By James Vicini

WASHINGTON, March 29 (Reuters) - Wal-Mart got a sympathetic hearing from several Supreme Court justices on Tuesday as the retailer sought to prevent female employees from bringing the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history.

The justices sharply questioned whether more than a million female employees can join together against Wal-Mart Stores Inc, accused of paying women less and giving them fewer promotions.

Justice Anthony Kennedy, a moderate conservative who often casts the decisive vote on the nine-member court, said, "I'm just not sure what the unlawful policy is."

Another justice, Antonin Scalia, said he felt "whipsawed" by the plaintiffs' argument and said they had not made clear whether it was Wal-Mart's corporate culture or local store managers who were allegedly at fault. "Which is it?" he asked.

Scalia questioned if it would be fair to the company, the world's biggest retailer, for the case to proceed. "Is this really due process?" he asked.

Potentially liability could reach billions of dollars.

But even if Wal-Mart loses at the Supreme Court and then at trial, financial analysts said the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company has more than enough cash to make a big payout with little impact on its profits.

A crowd of protesters gathered outside the court, shouting "Fair pay now" and carrying signs such as "Stop discounting the women of Wal-Mart" and "The women of Wal-Mart are not worthless."

Chris Kwapnoski, a 24-year Wal-Mart employee and one of the named plaintiffs in the case, told reporters after the arguments, "We're not going to lose."

She recalled being told by a manager to "brush the cobwebs off" and "doll up" if she wanted advancement.

"Wal-Mart is trying their level best to keep us out of court so the facts will not be presented to the public at large or before a sitting jury," said Betty Dukes, a Wal-Mart employee in Pittsburg, California, who first filed a lawsuit against the retailer in 2001.

Gisel Ruiz, a Wal-Mart executive vice president, said after the arguments, "We continue to have strong anti-discrimination policies in place, a strong record of advancement of women and we are always looking to be better."

The court is likely to make a ruling by late June. The decision could change the legal landscape for workplace and other class-action lawsuits, affecting a similar case against Costco Wholesale Corp.

Shares of Wal-Mart, a component of the Dow Jones industrial average, rose 7 cents to $52.26 on Tuesday.

CLOSELY WATCHED BY BUSINESS

Businesses say a Wal-Mart defeat could make every large corporation vulnerable to sweeping allegations of employment bias and would water down class-action requirements.

The Supreme Court is only deciding whether the lawsuit can go to trial as a group. If the court rejects the class-action status, the individual women still can sue, both sides in the case say.

Large class-action lawsuits make it easier for big groups of plaintiffs to sue corporations and they have led to huge payouts by tobacco, oil and food companies.

Wal-Mart's attorney, Theodore Boutrous, said female employees in different jobs and in different stores do not have enough in common to be in a single class-action lawsuit.

"It's not fair to anyone to put this all into one big class," he told the justices, adding that the company has a strong policy against discrimination.

Joseph Sellers, an attorney for the women, argued the class-action lawsuit should be allowed to go to trial for a decision on the merits of the claims. "This is an extraordinary case," he said.

Women's groups have said a Wal-Mart victory could signal a significant retreat for women's rights in the workplace.

Companies have sought to limit such lawsuits to individual or small groups of plaintiffs. The Supreme Court, with a conservative majority, has often agreed.

Sanford Bernstein analyst Colin McGranahan said he estimates a settlement could cost roughly $1.5 billion. That equates to 26 cents per Wal-Mart share, or less than 0.5 percent of the company's current share price.

He said Wal-Mart could "easily" fund that through existing liquidity or free cash flow, with less than 1 percent impact on its earnings per share.

Chief Justice John Roberts cited Wal-Mart's policy against discrimination and asked whether its pay disparity between men and women was less than the U.S. average.

The Supreme Court case is Wal-Mart Stores Inc v. Betty Dukes, No. 10-277.

(Additional reporting by Jeremy Pelofsky and Jessica Wohl in Chicago, editing by Philip Barbara)

WALMART-LAWSUIT/ (UPDATE 3, PIX)      

Document LBA0000020110329e73t00063



TIMELINE-Chronology of Wal-Mart discrimination  case

373 words
29 March 2011
06:01 AM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

WASHINGTON, March 29 (Reuters) - The U.S. Supreme Court hears arguments on Tuesday in the largest sex-discrimination class-action lawsuit ever as Wal-Mart Stores Inc's female employees seek billions of dollars from the giant retailer.

Here is a chronology of key events in the case:

June 19, 2001: Betty Dukes, a Wal-Mart greeter at a store in Pittsburg, California, and five current or former female employees filed a lawsuit in federal court in San Francisco, accusing the retailer of discriminating against its female employees by paying them less than men and giving them fewer promotions.

April 28, 2003: Attorneys for the women filed a motion for class certification and asked the judge to rule the case can go to trial on behalf of all women who worked for Wal-Mart in the United States at any time since Dec. 26, 1998, a group believed to exceed 1.5 million current and former female employees.

June 21, 2004: U.S. District Judge Martin Jenkins ruled the lawsuit can proceed as a nationwide class covering the women who worked at 3,400 stores, but did not decide the merits of the lawsuit.

He proposed a two-stage trial. First, the court would decide if Wal-Mart was liable for intentional sex discrimination. Depending on the verdict, the second stage would decide remedies, such as back pay, punitive damages and injunctive relief requiring pay and promotion changes.

April 26, 2010: A U.S. appeals court based in San Francisco, by a 6-5 vote, upheld the judge's conclusion that it would be better to handle the case as a single group rather than requiring individual lawsuits to be litigated.

Aug. 25, 2010: Wal-Mart appealed to the Supreme Court. It argued claims involving current and former workers, hourly employees and salaried managers and stores across the country were too different to proceed as one class-action lawsuit.

Dec. 6, 2010: The Supreme Court said it would decide whether the class-action certification violated federal rules for such lawsuits, one of the most important employment discrimination class-action cases in decades.

(Reporting by James Vicini, Editing by John Whitesides)

WALMART-LAWSUIT/ (TIMELINE)      

Document LBA0000020110329e73t00061



US court questions Wal-Mart sex bias suit

438 words
29 March 2011
03:24 PM
Al Jazeera English
AJAZEN
English
Copyright 2011 Al Jazeera English.      

The US Supreme Court has questioned the legality of the bid by a small group of women to represent more than a million others in suing Wal-Mart, the world andrsquo;s biggest retailer, for alleged gender bias.

The court on Tuesday was hearing whether the largest sex discrimination lawsuit in US history should go ahead.

The women, who are suing Wal-Mart for being discriminated against in pay and promotions, want to bring a class action suit on behalf of other female employees.

Justice Anthony Kennedy, a moderate conservative who often casts the decisive vote on the nine-member court, said: "I'm just not sure what the unlawful policy is. andrdquo;

Potentially liability could reach billions of dollars.

The Supreme Court is only deciding whether the lawsuit can go to trial as a group. If the court rejects the class-action status, the individual women still can sue, both sides in the case say.

Large class-action lawsuits make it easier for groups of plaintiffs to sue corporations and have led to huge payouts by tobacco, oil and food companies.

"Due process"

During the session, some justices strongly questioned the women's arguments.

Justice Antonin Scalia said he felt "whipsawed" by the plaintiffs' argument and said they had not made clear whether it was Wal-Mart's corporate culture or local store managers who were allegedly at fault for lower pay and fewer promotions to women. "Which is it?" he asked.

Scalia questioned if it would be fair to the company for the case to proceed. "Is this really due process?" he asked.

Wal-Mart's attorney, Theodore Boutrous, said female employees in different jobs and in different stores do not have enough in common to be in a single class-action lawsuit.

"It's not fair to anyone to put this all into one big class," he told the justices, adding that the company has a strong policy against discrimination.

Joseph Sellers, an attorney for the women, argued the class-action lawsuit should be allowed to go to trial for a decision on the merits of the claims. "This is an extraordinary case," he said.

Chris Kwapnoski, a 24-year Wal-Mart employee and one of the named plaintiffs in the case, told reporters after the arguments, "We're not going to lose."

She recalled being told by a manager to "brush the cobwebs off" and "doll up" if she wanted advancement.

The court is likely to make a ruling by late June. The decision could change the legal landscape for workplace and other class-action lawsuits.

Document AJAZEN0020110330e73t0000b



US Supreme Court hears landmark sexism case

Lucile Malandain      
714 words
29 March 2011
03:47 PM
Agence France Presse
AFPR
English
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2011 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.      

The Supreme Court began hearing Tuesday a bid by Wal-Mart to stop as many as 1.5 million female workers from achieving class-action status in the largest sexual discrimination case in US history.

Rejection would pave the way for claims that could cost Wal-Mart, the biggest private employer in the United States and the largest retailer in the world, tens of billions of dollars in back-pay and punitive damages.

Even more significantly, it would set a new precedent for labor discrimination cases and open the door to a possible flood of class-action suits from women, minority groups and people with disabilities.

The original case was filed a decade ago by six female Wal-Mart employees who claim they systematically received lower pay than their male counterparts and were passed over for promotions.

The liberal-leaning Ninth Circuit Court in San Francisco agreed by a 2-1 vote in 2007 and again in a narrow 6-5 decision last April to grant the case the class-action status the women sought.

Wal-Mart, which argues that decisions are left to individual managers across its more than 3,400 stores and that any discrimination was not the result of an over-arching corporate policy, appealed to the Supreme Court.

At the heart of the matter is whether the nature of the discrimination against the Wal-Mart women is uniform enough to be treated in one single case.

Legal observers say the Supreme Court is unlikely to decide in favor of the women, noting its tendency to make pro-business and pro-free market rulings.

During opening oral arguments on Tuesday, several justices expressed skepticism that between 500,000 and 1.5 million women could be lumped together in one case.

In a positive sign for Wal-Mart, associate justice Anthony Kennedy, seen as a crucial swing vote, seemed particularly unconvinced the case merited class-action status.

"There are some inconsistencies," Kennedy said, asking: "It's not clear to me: What is the unlawful policy that Wal-Mart has adopted under your theory of the case?"

Lawyers representing the plaintiffs note that women at Wal-Mart made up about two-thirds of the workers but only a fraction became store managers.

They also point out that in nearly every job category, women earned less than men, even though most had logged more years with the company than their male counterparts.

"We brought the case in this size because we were challenging company-wide practices that discriminate, consistently discriminated against women in every one of the regions in which the company does business in this country," plaintiffs' attorney Joseph Sellers replied.

The women are seeking back-pay and punitive damages, as well as a judgment that would force Wal-Mart to amend its pay practices.

If the court allows the women to sue as one bloc, the case would constitute the largest labor discrimination case in US history, with tens of billions of dollars at stake.

Wal-Mart warned last August of the enormity of the class-action, describing it as "larger than the active-duty personnel in the army, navy, air force, marines, and coast guard combined."

If the company loses, it risks having to pay out on claims from all the female workers it has employed since 1998.

Wal-Mart maintains it is impossible to assert a case of discrimination based on company employment figures and says there is no pay difference between men and women at the vast majority of its outlets.

Instances where those differences do exist are on merit, not because of a discriminatory company-wide policy, Wal-Mart insists.

A final Supreme Court ruling is expected before the end of June.

Created under Article III of the US Constitution, the Supreme Court is the the top judicial body in the United States and the final arbiter on fundamental legal matters.

It consists of a chief justice and eight associate justices -- all of whom are appointed for life by the president.

Court rulings are approved by a majority and their opinions written up by one of the justices. The other justices can add their own comments or, if they opposed the ruling, write a dissenting opinion.

lum-ag/jm

Document AFPR000020110329e73t0070u



Walmart's women workers take case to Supreme Court

603 words
29 March 2011
05:34 AM
Agence France Presse
AFPR
English
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2011 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.      

The US Supreme Court on Tuesday will hear a potentially landmark labor case on whether 1.5 million women employed by retail giant Wal-Mart can file a discrimination lawsuit as one unified group.

Female workers at the company, which is America's largest employer, claim that over the years, they systematically received lower pay than their male counterparts and were passed over for promotions, and are asking the US high court for the right to pursue legal action against the company as a group.

Lawyers representing the plaintiffs note that women at Wal-Mart make up about two-thirds of the hourly workers, but are only a fraction of store managers.

They also point out that in nearly every job category, women earned less than men, even though most had logged more years with the company than their male counterparts.

The women are seeking back wages they believe they are owed and punitive damages against Wal-Mart, as well as a change in its pay practices, which would affect both current and past company employees.

"Plaintiffs presented evidence that Wal-Mart managers undervalued women and espoused outdated stereotypes about their roles in the workplace," said Ariela Migdal, staff attorney with the Women's Rights Project at the American Civil Liberties, which has filed a friend of the court brief in the case.

"The women allege that Wal-Mart's nationwide practice of leaving pay and promotion decisions up to local managers allowed the stereotypes to limit their opportunities. Because of this, the women should be able to pursue their class action," said Migdal.

If the court allows the women to sue en bloc, the case would constitute the largest job-discrimination case in US history, with tens of billions of dollars at stake.

In seeking to block the case, Wal-Mart warned in August last year of the enormity of the class action, describing it as "larger than the active-duty personnel in the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, and Coast Guard combined."

Even more significantly, the ruling is expected to set a precedent for future labor discrimination lawsuits, opening the door for a possible flood of broadly defined "class action" cases on behalf of women, minorities and people with disabilities.

Legal observers say it is unlikely to rule in favor of the women, noting the US high court's pro-business, free market bias.

Wal-Mart has fought fiercely to defeat class action status for the suit, which was filed a decade ago by seven female Wal-Mart workers.

The often liberal-leaning Ninth Circuit Court in San Francisco agreed by a 2-1 vote in 2007 and again in a narrow 6-5 decision in April of last year, deciding both times in favor of the women employees.

Each time, Wal-Mart appealed the ruling, and the case now goes to the highest US court, which is expected to issue its ruling at the end of June.

If the company loses, it faces the risk of legal action from the ensemble of female workers employed at Wal-Mart since 1998

On the other hand, a win for Wal-Mart could be a blow to nationwide job bias suits.

For its part, Wal-Mart maintains that it is impossible to assert a case of discrimination based on company employment figures, and say there is no pay difference between men and women at the vast majority of its outlets.

Instances where those differences exist are made on merit, not because of a discriminatory company-wide policy, Wal-Mart insists.

lum-knt-sg/ao

Document AFPR000020110329e73t00464

Fulton
Taking Sides

By Kelly Eggers      
466 words
29 March 2011
05:48 PM
FINS
DJFINS
English
Copyright 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

In arguments heard yesterday at the U.S. Supreme Court, the justices trying the gender-discrimination case between Wal-Mart and its employees seem to be taking the side of the Bentonville, Ark.-based retailer.

The class-action lawsuit, which alleges that Wal-Mart's corporate culture allows individual store managers too much leeway in determining the compensation, promotions and benefits per employee in each store, surfaced in January.

Siding with Wal-Mart, the court said that the plaintiff may have to refile the suit.

This case could impact businesses nationwide in issues ranging from gender gaps in the workplace to pay disparities between employees. (Bloomberg)

Sales Buzz

A Ticking Time Bomb (FINS)

In an unofficial questionnaire, 29% of 510 respondents said they'd sign on to their dream job, even if it meant they were forced to work 100 hours a week.

Straight to the Coupon Clippers (Mint.com)

Group coupon and daily deal sites are looking for sales staff who are constant deal-spotters and know local businesses and community hotspots, so they're hiring from the biggest pool of frugalistas out there: moms.

Related: Groupon for Moms, Plum District, Is Hiring

Becoming a "Noogler" (ClickZ)

If you're looking to break into sales at Google but want to stand out against the thousands of other applicants, be prepared for a rigorous interview process, try to get an in through networking events and showcase your ability to build a successful business.

Marketing Buzz

Building Up and Out (FINS)

Publicis-owned Digitas has launched a new B2B marketing platform, Digitas Business, and has appointed Dennis Reilly as director of the company's new arm.

Survival of the Fittest (Business News Daily)

As marketing evolves, so do the roles of marketers -- and sometimes it can be tough to keep up. Here are a few ways in which CMOs' roles and responsibilities have changed, and what it now takes

Creative Kings (Mashable)

Creating stand-out marketing campaigns in the digital world is hard. Here's the story of five shops behind some of 2010's most successful and innovative digital advertising and marketing campaigns.

Buzz Around the Office

Reid-do (Funny or Die)

What if Tara Reid starred in the Big Lebowski? And played every role?

List of the Day: Slow Down

If you're a salesperson making proposals like you're The Bachelor, you might need to keep a few things in mind so you spend less time proposing and more time closing. Here are a few suggestions:

1. Propose less often.

2. Propose later in the sales process.

3. Only propose what you've already discussed in a sales call.

(Source: BNet)

For all the news you need throughout the day, follow FINSider (sales, marketing) on Twitter and Facebook.

Document DJFINS0020121226e73t002bx

News; International
MLB Looking into Proper Treatment for Players with Concussions; Congress Holds Hearings on Bias against Muslims; Wal-Mart May Be Subject to Massive Class Action Lawsuit for    Discrimination  against Women; Protests Continue in Damascus Against Assad Government; Poisonous Snake on the Loose in Bronx Zoo; World Leaders Meet to Discuss Libya; Jimmy Carter Meets With Cuban President

Jessica Yellin, Reza Sayah, Becky Anderson, Arwa Damon, Nic Robertson, Brooke Baldwin, Elizabeth Cohen, Mohammed Jamjoom, Alison Kosik      
8,026 words
29 March 2011
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
English
©2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. All rights reserved. Prepared by CQ Transcriptions, LLC.      

BROOKE BALDWIN, CNN ANCHOR: And hello to you. I'm Brooke Baldwin. Top of the hour. Let's talk Libya.

Airstrikes, missile launches and military action in general will continue in Libya until there are big changes there; that is according to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton today. She's been speaking at this emergency summit, this conference of world leaders, all asking each other the same thing, that being what to do about Moammar Gadhafi.

We're going to take you live to London here in just a minute. They're also talking about the possibility that Gadhafi could go into exile. But that, of course, opens up all kinds of questions as to where and who might be willing to take him.

But, first, I want to go to senior international correspondent Nic Robertson there live for me in Tripoli.

And, Nic, before we talk about your trip to Misrata, I want to ask you about -- we have heard about several rather large explosions there where you are in Tripoli just a short time ago. Where were they? What did you hear?

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, they were a couple of miles away from us. It's not possible to say what the target was.

One of them -- one of the three explosions was perhaps one of the loudest that we have heard so far. And they all came within a minute of each other. But what makes these explosions different from all the ones we have heard until now over the past week-and-a-half, these came in daylight. And that's the first time we have heard explosions here, bombs during the daylight hours.

We also heard just before that an aircraft or a couple of aircraft flying overhead. And it sounded louder and lower than any aircraft we have heard up until now, which does give an indication the coalition more confident in the skies over Tripoli, but exactly what the target was, very likely we won't know, because if it's a military target, every chance the government won't take us to see it, Brooke. BALDWIN: Nic, you and I have talked a lot about Misrata, which is not too terribly far from where you are. And today we have heard from witnesses describing the scene, and I'm quoting here, as carnage beyond imagination. You I know, Nic, have been asking the government to please take you there. They finally did.

Two questions. What did you see and maybe even more importantly what were you not allowed to see?

ROBERTSON: Yes, let's start with what we couldn't see first. That was the center of the city, where the opposition, the rebels, are, the civilians in the city. We couldn't go there. The government wouldn't let us. They gave us on the ground about I would say 30, 40 minutes maximum.

This was a government-organized trip. We stopped at the outskirts, saw the -- Gadhafi's army in many locations on the outskirts. Lots of signs of destruction. Coalition strikes on tanks, we could see that. But we also saw Gadhafi's tanks hiding under trees at the side of the road, heavy artillery pieces, a lot of signs of destruction. Clearly a lot of battles have been fought at many of the intersections we passed through at the very least.

But we didn't get off the main highway. We weren't allowed to do that and we didn't see a lot of civilians there. The only people we saw were Gadhafi supporters who had been brought in just for our visit and one of their jobs it appeared was to stop us filming down the road toward the rebels -- where the rebels were in the city -- Brooke.

BALDWIN: I want to ask you also, Nic, about President Obama's speech. First of all, was it shown on Libyan state television? Secondly, what is the reaction you're hearing to the fact that this whole mandate is not to remove Gadhafi militarily? Are Gadhafi, are his forces, are they relieved at all to be hearing that?

ROBERTSON: I think that there is perhaps, perhaps, an amount of relief that President Obama said that he's not prepared to put troops on the ground here, because in a way that allows sort of Gadhafi to dodge the immediate bullet. And maybe that allows him or the people around him a recalibration to think about the possibility of talks.

But the reality that we have seen in the time after that is that his troops have gone on the attack again. We have seen coalition strikes going after him, so clearly the coalition sees and perceives him on the offensive in Misrata and further east in the country. People here could see President Obama's speech, but only if they tuned in to a station, an international station like ours.

It wasn't carried on state television, and we haven't seen any reference to it on state television so far, so really the government here just trying to ignore it. And Gadhafi does, as far as we can see now, despite that, what he heard from President Obama last night, is continuing on the same path, Brooke.

BALDWIN: No huge surprise there not showing it on state TV. Let me ask you about something, Nic, that we found out today. NATO's commander today saying that there are signs that elements of al Qaeda and Hezbollah are part of the opposition forces. Can you at all add to that?

ROBERTSON: Well, it is certainly well-documented that there is an extremist Islamic element here in Libya. It's small. This is something that the government here has tried to make big claims about in the past, blaming the opposition rebellion on al Qaeda, which is clearly overstating the fact.

The extremist element we know because many of them went to fight in Iraq against coalition forces there, they came, many of them, from the town of Derna in the east of the country. Do they represent the majority of the opposition? No. Do they represent a tiny group of people who would want to exploit chaos in the country? Potentially yes.

Al Qaeda broadly speaking in the North of Africa, al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb is trying to grow, is trying to strengthen. And certainly analysts believe that they have training bases in the North of Africa that they are using rather than using training bases in Pakistan, which are being targeted by drones. So al Qaeda would like to use this region as a base for operations in Europe in the future.

Are they sort of actually being able to do that at the moment while they're fighting with the opposition or whichever elements are with the opposition? Probably not. But this is an aspiration and this obviously is something that will be of key international concern, dealing with the rebels, but more broadly dealing with a situation in Libya, that it doesn't escalate into a broad civil war and chaos, where groups like al Qaeda can flourish in all that sort of chaos and mayhem, Brooke.

BALDWIN: Sure, potentially a huge concern there in Libya here. Nic Robertson live in Tripoli, Nic, my thanks to you.

And from Tripoli, I want to take you east to the oil-rich city -- we have talked about this -- Ras Lanuf. That is where CNN's Arwa Damon has been traveling with opposition forces. And she's been seeing their first real resistance from military units taking orders from Moammar Gadhafi.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ARWA DAMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Opposition fighters are now clustered trying to regroup in Ras Lanuf, and on the other side of this oil town, we are hearing the sounds of explosions and seeing dark plumes of smoke rising.

This is a very significant loss for the opposition. Just a short while ago, we were on the outskirts of Bin Jawad, where we heard sounds of explosions, saw smoke rising and then saw the opposition beat a hasty and panicked retreat. They say that 8:00 in the morning in Bin Jawad they began to come over, heavy artillery tank and rocket fire. They also say that there were snipers in the city, Gadhafi loyalists, who were firing on them as well. Unable to withstand the barrage, they were forced to retreat all the way back to the oil town of Ras Lanuf, it would seem. They say that they are continuing to struggle in terms of standing up against Gadhafi's military, both because they lack weapons, equipment, but more importantly they lack training. They lack a cohesive military strategy, the basics of command-and-control and critical discipline needed to take on this kind of a fight.

Up until now, it had been fairly easy going for the opposition fighters thanks to those airstrikes. They had been moving through territory where the population supported the opposition or was even part of the opposition itself. But in the last 24 hours, as we saw them beginning to push westward into those tribal areas loyal to Gadhafi, they have come across not only residents who are armed and firing on them, but now it would seem Gadhafi's military as well, regrouping, intent not just protecting Gadhafi's hometown of Sirte and the capital, Tripoli, but also it would seem intent on regaining all the ground that it has lost.

Arwa Damon, CNN, Ras Lanuf, Libya.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BALDWIN: OK, Arwa, thank you.

And let's talk big picture here. Want to take you to London now, because political leaders, U.N. diplomats, more than 40 of them, they are gathered today in London; they're trying to create a common vision of what Libya will look like, however this civil war may end.

CNN's Becky Anderson is joining me now on the phone from London.

And, Becky, just first things first. Can we assume that every single diplomat attending this conference agrees Libya can never go back to the way it was before this uprising?

BECKY ANDERSON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, I think that is a fair assumption.

The meeting has closed out. Hillary Clinton is making her way back to the airport now and back to the Air Force base (INAUDIBLE) on her eight-hour journey. It is a whistle-stop for many of these delegates here today.

But what the British prime minister, David Cameron, said ahead of this meeting was that he wanted to ensure political and diplomatic unity to the maximum for the future, a different future for Libya and for the U.N.-led coalition in the country at the moment.

And he certainly got a widened and deepened coalition, new pledge of support to NATO operations from Sweden, a growing number of countries committed to implementing the U.N. resolution in Libya and crucially agreement to a new contact group on Libya. And that will be run by the Qataris, and that's important of course, the Qataris one of the Arab countries here, one of the first to recognize the rebel national council. They have said that they will pick up the reins on this contact group. So he's getting -- what they're getting, those who have been leading this, the U.K., France, and the U.S., is a wider and deeper commitment from everybody that -- not just on the military side, but on the political and diplomatic side, that things are going to be very different going forward.

BALDWIN: Becky, I want to get to something U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said today. She spoke today specifically about why she wanted to come to London. Let's listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: We came to London to speak with one voice in support of a transition that leads to a brighter future for the Libyan people.

I'm very pleased with the progress that we have made, both today and in the days preceding it, and grateful for everyone who participated in the conference and in the broader effort in Libya. I think we are making a lot of progress together, and we could not do it unless we were representing the international community as we are.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BALDWIN: So, Becky, two points, representing the international community, number one, but number two, echoing sort of what we heard from President Obama, the fact that the future of Libya really is in the hands of the people of Libya.

ANDERSON: That's right. And I think the important thing that came out of this meeting, if anything, today was that everybody agrees that the shape of Libya will be different going forward.

But how the international community helps shape the future of Libya is still to a certain extent up for grabs. For example, we know that the U.N. resolution doesn't allow for regime change, although you hear everybody at this meeting saying that Gadhafi should go.

We know, we think we understand that the U.N. resolution doesn't allow for arming rebels, although the U.S. countering that to a certain extent today. But when I talked to the NATO chief, he was very, very firm, saying that we're not there to arm the rebels, but we are there to protect them. So how the international community shapes this future is really the difficult question, with very few answers at the moment.

(CROSSTALK)

BALDWIN: Right. I know that is one of the questions, do they arm the rebels or don't they?

Becky Anderson, I thank you so much for hopping on the phone. I know you have a special coming up here in a matter of minutes. So my thanks to you, Becky. And just in to CNN, we're hearing from our reporter on the ground in Libya Reza Sayah. He has just interviewed the mother of this woman. You have seen this video. She's the alleged rape victim who burst into the journalists' hotel there in Tripoli. This was on Saturday. We will find out from Reza if her family knows where she is now. Stay right here.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BALDWIN: Want to go now to Reza Sayah, who is on the phone from Libya.

I understand, Reza, you're somewhere between Benghazi and Tobruk. And you have just spoken with the mother of the woman who -- we have seen the video -- Nic Robertson was there shooting this video inside this Tripoli hotel over the weekend -- claiming she had been raped by members of Gadhafi's militia. What did this mother tell you? Where is this woman?

REZA SAYAH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, she's about 300 miles east of the rebel capital of Benghazi and Tobruk, which is the easternmost portion of the Libyan coastline, right near the Egyptian/Libyan border.

And like much of the world, she, too, saw those disturbing pictures on television on Saturday, and it has sparked outrage for this mother. She's obviously upset, she's worried. She hasn't heard from her daughter for about three days. But most of all she is angry. And the comments that she is making, a few weeks ago they were unthinkable here in Libya.

She was openly condemning Colonel Gadhafi, challenging him to come to her hometown in Tobruk. She told us that if Colonel Gadhafi was here, I would slap him in the face. So you get an idea of how angry she is. The allegations, the suggestions the regime has made about her daughter being promiscuous, leading a lifestyle that's questionable and not in keeping with Islam, her mother rejected all of those allegations. She described them as a desperate attempt to discredit her daughter.

So a lot of anger and concern from this mother. She knows that she can't do much all the way here in Tobruk. All she can do is raise awareness, call on the international community to help, Brooke.

BALDWIN: So she's angry. But, Reza, do we know does she have any idea where her daughter is? I know it was reported she had been apprehended, perhaps she would be released. Does she have a clue where her daughter is?

SAYAH: She hasn't. The last time she says she spoke to her, she believed that she was in a compound belonging to the regime. That was Sunday.

Now, since then, regime officials have said that her daughter is released, she's free to do what she wants, that this is a criminal case and the government is investigating. Her mother rejects that. She calls those lies. She says if indeed her daughter is -- true, where is she? Let's see her. Allow her to speak to the media, the international media. That obviously is not happening.

BALDWIN: Reza, help us also understand, because according to Nic Robertson's reporting, this young woman is engaged. But in Libya and I spoke with an eyewitness, a Libyan, several weeks ago who explained to me when a woman is raped, her honor is gone. So is her fiance still standing by her, and her father, for that matter?

SAYAH: Well, here's what happened.

And this could explain the engagement ceremony, which happened without her, in absentia, last night.

BALDWIN: I see.

SAYAH: The family believes that these allegations made by the regime that she leads a questionable lifestyle is an attempt to discredit her.

In this conservative society, even accusations, even if they're not proven, they're enough to dishonor someone. So I think this engagement ceremony that took place in their hometown of Tobruk yesterday was an attempt to reject this attempt by the regime to dishonor this woman. The family is saying, the honor is still intact, and that engagement ceremony was an indication of that.

BALDWIN: I see. Reza Sayah, thank you for the hustle in getting on the phone for us and explaining your conversation there with her, with her mother, and we're all waiting to find out where this young woman is in Libya. Reza, my thanks to you.

Now to Cuba. Former President Jimmy Carter is actually about to meet with the president there, Raul Castro. But a reporter just asked him if he's trying to get that American subcontractor released from prison, if that's on his agenda there in Cuba. We will hear his response straight ahead.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BALDWIN: Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter is in Cuba today squashing any kind of speculation he could win the release of Alan Gross, an American recently sentenced to 15 years in prison in Cuba.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JIMMY CARTER, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (through translator): We have spoken to some officials about Mr. Gross, but I'm not here to take him out of the country.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BALDWIN: President Carter speaking in Spanish there. Gross, by the way, was a subcontractor working for USAID in Cuba when he was convicted of working on a -- quote -- "subversive project" to illegally connect people to the Internet. Coming up: Did you watch? How did he do? The president, it seems everyone has some kind of opinion on President Obama's Libya speech from last night. But Republicans and Democrats are on message today. That is next. What is their message?

And then four days, still no sign of this guy. I'm sure you know this story by now. The cobra disappeared from a zoo in New York City couple of days ago. Now someone has created this fake Twitter account for the snake. It's hysterical. We have some of the tweets to share with you coming up.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BALDWIN: We just heard this exchange about Moammar Gadhafi. It's pretty interesting stuff out of Washington. Take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. JOHN MCCAIN (R), ARIZONA: There are persistent rumors that Gadhafi really has very few friends, and it's likely that at some point he will -- that they will crack and he will either leave, be killed, whatever. Is that something that you think is a pretty good possibility that may happen?

ADM. JAMES STAVRIDIS, NATO SUPREME ALLIED COMMANDER, EUROPE: As I look at the situation in Libya, Senator, you can see a wide range of possibilities out ahead of us that run from a static stalemate to what you just described, Gadhafi cracking.

I think that if we work all the elements of power, I think we have a chance at -- a more than reasonable chance of Gadhafi leaving, because the entire international community is arrayed against him.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BALDWIN: So maybe Gadhafi just hightails it out of the country.

But let's talk about the president's speech specifically. Did you watch it? Did you catch this part? He said he will not commit troops to overthrow Gadhafi.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: To be blunt, we went down that road in Iraq. Thanks to the extraordinary sacrifices of our troops and the determination of our diplomats, we are hopeful about Iraq's future, but regime change there took eight years, thousands of American and Iraqi lives, and nearly a trillion dollars. That is not something we can afford to repeat in Libya.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BALDWIN: Jessica Yellin, our national political correspondent, I know you watched this thing last night, as did I. And the president has really been hearing really it from the Republicans, but it sounds like from that clip he got a little dig in there, didn't he? JESSICA YELLIN, CNN NATIONAL POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Yes. There's definitely some political jujitsu there, Brooke. The president is just reminding everyone that his Republican critics may be quick with outrage and caution now, but remember who got us into Iraq.

BALDWIN: Right, of course. And from what I'm hearing, though, some Republicans are saying, you know, should we even be in there in the first place? Should we? Should we not? Others are saying we aren't hitting Gadhafi hard enough. Is that at all what you're hearing there in Washington?

YELLIN: Yes, definitely.

Republicans are taking the president apart over Libya, but they're all going in different directions, which is one of the reasons their criticism hasn't gained more traction among ambivalent Americans. You're hearing some congressional Republicans, like Senators Lindsey Graham and John McCain say that the president should escalate the mission, do more to get rid of Gadhafi.

That's not what you're hearing potential Republican presidential contenders say. Most of them say the mission is confusing, but then they diverge. Donald Trump, he seems to questions the overall effort, because he thinks it's dangerous and we don't know the rebels better. Governor Tim Pawlenty supports an effort. He says he would have gone in even earlier without coalition support.

And here's Sarah Palin speaking on FOX.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SARAH PALIN (R), FORMER ALASKA GOVERNOR: He did not make the case for this intervention. U.S. interests have got to be met if we are going to intervene. And U.S. interests can't just mean validating some kind of post-American theory of intervention wherein we wait for the Arab League and the United Nations to tell us, thumbs up, America, you can go now, you can act, and then we get in the back of the bus and we wait for NATO, we wait for the French to lead us. That's not inspirational.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

YELLIN: So, Brooke, she says that because the U.S. only supported a no-fly zone after France and the U.K. agreed to partner and the Arab League publicly supported it. But last night, the president made it clear that having international allies and support was crucial for him. In Palin's eyes, it weakens the U.S.

BALDWIN: And to be fair, we know some of the Democrats have been very critical as well. But I heard a couple on TV last night. They seem to be fairly in line with the president now, not all, but some.

YELLIN: Yes.

BALDWIN: Jessica in Washington, thank you so much. And Muslims here, they don't all feel welcome here in the United States. That was at least the message from one witness today at a hearing on Capitol Hill. Coming up, we will ask her why she said that and what she thought of today's hearings. That's next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BROOKE BALDWIN, CNN ANCHOR: Well, she was working the story until about three seconds ago. Elizabeth Cohen joining me with breaking news in the world of Major League Baseball. What do you know?

ELIZABETH COHEN, CNN SENIOR MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: You don't usually think of baseball and concussions. The Major League Baseball Players Association and Major League Baseball have come together and create these new guidelines that say, you've got to examine players if they've been hit in the head during the course of game and during spring training you need a baseline for everybody so you know where they're at. If they do have a concussion, it's seven days on the disabled list and you need to get the medical OK to go back to work.

BALDWIN: So why do this in the first place? Have they seen concussions on the rise by getting bonked on the head by a baseball?

COHEN: I just spoke with someone on the players side, I said, is this a big deal in baseball? He said it's not as big as concussions in football or hockey. But it does happen. People get hid in the hit. It definitely happens.

BALDWIN: Elizabeth Cohen, thanks for the news just in to CNN.

Now here's the message. You're not welcome. That's the message many Muslims in America say they are getting these days. So says one woman testifying on Capitol Hill today. Farhana Khera is the executive director of Muslim Advocates, a national group of Muslim lawyers and professionals. Farhana, how did it go today? Was it productive?

FARHANA KHERA, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, MUSLIM ADVOCATES: Well, hello, Brooke, and thank you for having me. You know, let me quote Senator Lindsey Graham, the highest ranking Republican on the committee when he said we need to have this hearing. This hearing was an important step forward.

Since 9/11 over the last several years unfortunately there's been a growing climate of anti-Muslim hate and bigotry in our country. And over the last several months in particular it seems like this anti- Muslim hate has reached new levels. And it has grave consequences on the day-to-day lives of Muslim, Arab, Sikh and southeastern Americans. Whether it's hate crimes, harassment of children in school, discrimination in the workplace. It has real-life consequences.

BALDWIN: Let's give a real-life example. This is one you cited today. You talk about the anti-Muslim hate that's sort of ramped up, the message specifically that you're not welcome. You specifically mention this mosque in Murfreesboro, Tennessee, actually the subject of a CNN documentary airing over the weekend. We're going to watch a clip. This is Kevin Fisher, one of the opponents of the building of the mosque.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KEVIN FISHER: Officially we have filed a lawsuit to stop the building of the mosque.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BALDWIN: So from bits and pieces of the documentary there's quite a bit of vitriol against the building of this mosque. But overall here, is that the exception or the norm in America in 2011?

KHERA: Well, our concern is, as Senator Graham said, one case is one to many. I think what we heard today reiterated from both Republicans and Democrats was that religious freedom is an important core value of who we are as Americans.

And it wasn't just political leaders. But I was so gratified to hear Cardinal McCarrick, head of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, also speak passionately and eloquently about the importance of religious freedom. So this is something I think all Americans from all walks of life can come together on.

BALDWIN: I know you say one case is one too many. You've been quotes as saying you've seen a rampant increase in anti-Muslim experiences. We found the most recent data from 2009, 8.4 percent anti-Islamic bias versus some 72 percent anti-Jewish bias. So when you look at the numbers, anti-Islamic bias is quite small.

What do you make of that number, because some people say that the instances of anti-Muslim hate is small? And also, is it tough even collecting some of the data?

KHERA: Well, a couple of things. Number one, the hate crimes data that you were referencing doesn't pain the complete picture. In fact, the attorney general himself has said that the department's system for collecting hate crimes data is seriously flawed.

BALDWIN: Do you think the numbers are erroneous or they don't reflect 2011?

KHERA: The attorney general has said talking about the full universe of hate crimes that he thinks it's in the tens of thousands of underreporting of hate crimes. And that's just hate crimes. For the communities that are affected by anti-Muslim bigotry, it's more than just hate crimes. It's discrimination in the workplace. It's the bullying of our children. You know, and children have the right to be able to go to school and feel safe.

BALDWIN: I know there are more hearings to come there on Capitol Hill on this topic, but I thank you for coming on and talking about today and your testimony. Thank you.

I want to remind our viewers we've been talking about this documentary. This upcoming weekend on CNN you can catch it. We're calling it "Unwelcome -- the Muslims next door." It's a Soledad O'Brien documentary that chronicles the dramatic fight over the construction of the Islamic mosque in Murfreesboro, Tennessee. It ultimately ended up in court. You can watch that Saturday night, 8:00 eastern.

In Syria, President AL-Assad is trying to turn things around today. His government has resigned, and he's getting ready for a major speech. Thousands of pro-government demonstrators have taken to the streets. Here's one example. We'll tell you what all of this means for this specific country, next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BALDWIN: Let me bring you up to speed as to what's happening now in Syria. Egypt, Tunisia, Libya, we started wondering last week if Syria might become the next domino. Well, this is what happened today in Syria. The government got the people on the streets to show support for the president, President Bashar AL-Assad. AL-Assad fired his cabinet, officially they resigned.

Tomorrow the president will be addressing the Syrian people. Let's all remember, antigovernment protests erupted last week in a small town just south of Damascus, and it spread to other cities after reports of government forces opening fire on them.

So joining me again today covering this, again from Abu Dhabi, CNN's Mohammed Jamjoom. Let's first talk about President AL-Assad, pretty young guy, 45 years of age. By training he's an op ophthalmologist. He studied in London. He married a Syrian woman who was born and raised in linden. His brother was heir apparent but he was killed in a car crash so the job came to him. With all that said, I guess my question is this -- is he perhaps more open to compromise than his hard-lined father was?

MOHAMMAD JAMJOOM, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Brooke, initially when he first came to power, Bashar al AL-Assad looked like he was more open to compromise, looked like he would implement reform. He promised reforms, even economic reforms, because even at that stage in 2000 people in Syria were expressing discontent with the economic disparity that was there.

What happened is ten years later and still there were no reforms, at least the people felt no meaningful reforms. That's one of the reasons this protest movement has taken root. It started out as a local issue, people in the south asking for more economic opportunity, asking to be able to assemble, to gather, and for this emergency law to be lifted.

Now it's now coalesced around this message of regime change. People are frustrated because even though Bashar AL-Assad was seen to be somebody who was possibly a reformer or someone more moderate than his hard-line father, we see 10 years, 11, 12 years on that he is still hardline, that he is somebody who even though promises reform people aren't seeing him deliver on the promises.

BALDWIN: Mohammed, you bring up the emergency rule, and people, Syrians, I'm wondering if they believe that the president is serious about ending the emergency rule, because I know you know it's been in place for 50 years and just within the past couple of days, president AL-Assad said, yes, he would end it, but he didn't say when. Do the people believe it will happen?

JAMJOOM: Brooke, it was remarkable that the government actually made this concession, said they were going to lift the law. First they said they were going to study lifting it. Now they've actually said they're going to lift it. But nobody knows when that's going to be. Even today in a press conference Secretary of State Hillary Clinton asked aloud, when would this emergency law be lifted? That's what everybody wants to know, the activists, protestors on the streets out there in Syria. They're saying they don't believe that this law will actually be lifted. They're saying that these promises, they didn't come soon enough. They should have been years ago, the law lifted years ago. Now they want to know, when is this going to be lifted? That still hasn't happened.

BALDWIN: As they wait for the win, we saw President AL-Assad's backers out today. What about the other side? Are they still putting pressure on the government, a la Egypt, a la Libya, Jordan?

JAMJOOM: Oh, absolutely, Brooke. Everybody we speak with that's part of the protest movement there in Syria now, they all say they feel -- I'm paraphrasing here -- the wind is at their backs now, that they're putting sufficient pressure on the government. They're committed to continue coming out into the streets and protesting and to demand their rights.

Now, we must stress that the people that we're speaking with understand the risks here. They understand that by doing so they could be putting their lives at risk. They understand that the government could do another crackdown, that it's very dangerous.

But what's happening there, what we're seeing and hearing from more witnesses and protestors is this barrier of fear that was in place there for so long has been broken and people say the time is now for them to raise their voices, to come out into the streets to demand their rights.

BALDWIN: Mohammed, we will all be watching for President AL-Assad to speak tomorrow. Perhaps then he addresses the emergency rule and ending it.

Coming up here, have you heard about this landmark class action case involving Wal-Mart? What the Supreme Court decides could impact a lot of other companies as well.

Also, have you seen the twitter account somebody set up pretending to be the missing cobra? The snake disappeared a couple of days ago from the Bronx Zoo. Here is one of the tweets. This is fun following this guy or gal. "On top of the Empire State Building. All the people look like little mice down there, delicious little mice."

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BALDWIN: Here we go. Missing cobra, day four in New York City. This quote from the Bronx Zoo. Right now it's the snake's game. That's a quote from the zoo there. Anyone for calling in this guy?

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Enough is enough. I've had it with these snakes on this plane.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BALDWIN: Oh, yes, we went there. Samuel L. Jackson in the famous/infamous "Snakes on a Plane." But this is totally different, right? Of course it is. The zoo says the cobra is still in the reptile building. Now, they don't know where in the reptile building, but they are sure it's in there somewhere. And how's this for reassurance?

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JACK HANNA, ANIMAL EXPERT: But, again, the cobra, this type of snake is not an aggressive snake, so to speak.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BALDWIN: "So to speak." OK. We're having a little fun with this story. Why not? There's a lot of down news. This is a good one. No, we're not alone here in doing this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JON STEWART, HOST, "THE DAILY SHOW": You know, the Middle East desire for freedom really has been universal. It would be reasonable to think that it would even jump to our shores.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The snake is missing at the Bronx Zoo in New York. An Egyptian cobra disappeared Friday. It is 20 inches long and it is poisonous.

STEWART: Freedom! Never should have given that snake access to social media.

(LAUGHTER)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BALDWIN: OK, so social media, check. Bronx Zoo's cobra is tweeting again today, tweeting a couple of fun tweets. Quote, "Anyone know a good vegan restaurant near Union Square? Also this - "Leaving Wall Street. These guys make my skin crawl." I can't make this stuff up. You've got to follow this person.

By the way, I was e-mailing with this twitterer this morning. He or she wrote back and said this, "I'm a snake. Snakes can't talk. Thankssss."

We've asked the zoo to come on. They sent us this statement, "Sweeping searches continue on a daily basis. In addition, we implemented a system for tracking any movement by the snake that would help aid in its capture. As her comfort level rises" -- yes, this little snake is a she -- "she will begin to move around the building to seek food and water." And we assume the folks at the zoo will have the nets ready and seize it. We'll be watching for it. Now this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I brought this case because I believe there was a pattern of discrimination at Wal-Mart not just in my store, but I believe it's across the country.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BALDWIN: Now that case has reached the Supreme Court. Some very big companies are rallying behind the retail giant. We'll tell you why, next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BALDWIN: It could be the biggest class action sex discrimination lawsuit ever. A small group of women sued Wal-Mart more than a decade ago accusing the company of giving better pay and better jobs to men. Well, now they want it certified as a class action, meaning it could affect millions of current and former female Wal-Mart employees.

This has already been OK-ed by the lower courts, but now the U.S. Supreme Court is weighing in. Wal-Mart says this should not be a class action suit because there are way too many employees for the accusations to be applied across the board.

Let's go to Alison Kosik and talk about this in New York. Alison, even though the suit is specifically aimed at Wal-Mart, there are other major, major companies who filed briefs in support of Wal-Mart. Tell me who and why they are involved.

ALISON KOSIK, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: Exactly. You know what, more than 20 companies, Brooke, filed these briefs supporting Wal- Mart. They include Intel, Altria, Bank of America, Microsoft. These are big companies, and you know what? They are worried about themselves because the fact is if this case gets the OK from the Supreme Court to be tried as a class action, it could wind up opening up these other big companies to the same risk, exposing them to class actions that they say are bad for jobs and the economy in addition to being very costly.

Wal-Mart is arguing there should be an exception for big companies since it is the biggest private employer in the U.S. It's also the world's biggest retailer as well. But as a class action, you know, it potentially, Brooke, can affect almost every private employer, big and small. Brooke?

BALDWIN: If, and this could be a monumental if, if Wal-Mart were to lose a class action suit, what kind of money could we be talking about?

KOSIK: We could be talking about billions of dollars. If this thing goes to trial and Wal-Mart loses at trial, it could be on the hook of paying billions of dollars in damages. This suit looks to cover every woman who has ever worked at Wal-Mart and Sam's Club, too, because Sam's Club is a part of the Wal-Mart brand. So at any point, this would include women at any point since December of 1998. That's a lot of women, and that is a lot of money if Wal-Mart were to lose, Brooke.

BALDWIN: If it goes to trial, good point. Alison Kosik, thank you so much.

Coming up here, try to imagine this, parents. Your daughter is murdered. Then the EMT who you call in to respond to the crime scene actually takes out his cell phone, takes pictures of her body and then posts it to Facebook. It happened to one family in New York. Coming up, I'm going to speak with one mother and talk to her about why they are now suing many people involved, including Facebook. Stay here.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BALDWIN: Now let's get you that CNN equals politics update. Let's go live to Washington to Paul Steinhauser with the latest fresh off the Political Ticker. What do you have?

PAUL STEINHAUSER, CNN DEPUTY POLITICAL DIRECTOR: Brooke, let's talk about that possibility of a possible government shutdown. Remember, the clock is ticking. All the news in Libya and in Japan has kind of overshadowed it, but there is a distinct possibility we could have a government shutdown a week from Friday. That's when funding for the government runs out.

And right now, you know, lawmakers are back here in Washington. Democrats and Republicans in the House and Senate trying to come to some agreement to keep the government funded for the rest of this fiscal year which goes through the end of September. They have until next Friday to try to hammer out a deal. Again, if they don't, you could have a government shutdown. Dana Bash and the rest of the Capitol Hill team is keeping an eye on the negotiations.

What do Americans think? They are divided on who has the better approach to the budget. You can see right there 46 percent say president Obama and the Democrats have the better ideas and better plans, 45 percent say the Republicans in Congress. They are divided. I guess Americans are divided. We'll see if we can get a deal done by the end of next week, Brooke.

BALDWIN: What else do you have? The president is gearing up towards a reelection bid?

STEINHAUSER: Fundraiser in chief tonight. The president is in New York City and caps off his visit to the Big Apple with two events for the Democratic National Committee. One is a fund-raiser and one is a thank you to supporters. Brooke, this brings to four the number of events the president has done for the Democratic National Committee this month alone.

You know what, yesterday we reported and confirmed that when he sets up his re-election campaign it's going to be headquartered in Chicago in a skyscraper right downtown. I think we're getting pretty close, it looks like, to the president formally starting that reelection bid. You know what, Brooke in the race for the White House is slowly starting to heat up.

BALDWIN: Slowly but surely. Paul, quickly though, I want to go back to the whole government shutdown, fiscal year 2011. If and when that goes through, when do they then tackle fiscal year 2012?

STEINHAUSER: They're already behind on that because we're still worried about this fiscal year. Both sides and parties are coming up with plans that should be introduced soon for the next fiscal year. And besides the budget for this year and next year you've also got the debt ceiling. The government may have to raise the debt ceiling as early as next month, and that's going to be another flashpoint between Democrats and Republicans so it doesn't get any easier. Brooke?

BALDWIN: We'll be watching right along with you. Thank you very much. Paul is always working hard there in the political unit. We'll get you another political update here in about half an hour. You can always get updates, we're working on them all the time. Go to CNNpolitics.com, also on twitter, go to @politicalticker.

And it's just about the top of the hour. Watch this.

Their daughter was murdered in her own apartment and then the EMT posted a picture of her body online. Her parents are now fighting back, and Facebook is under fire. I'm Brooke Baldwin. The news is now.

New waves of terror in Libya. Witnesses say men are invading homes, telling people to run for their lives, and then pulling the trigger. Now, Moammar Gadhafi's forces are looking for a new fight. Also, a disturbing suggestion by NATO: Al Qaeda may be infiltrating the rebel ranks. So does the U.S. really know the opposition?

Plus, a massive sandstorm comes out of nowhere in just minutes. You will see the frightening moments.

And should illegal immigrants be killed or shot off into space? Those questions showed up on a quiz for third-graders. Wait until you see the rest of the test.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

Content and programming copyright 2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP.    ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.    This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.      

Document NWSRM00020110329e73t000ji

News; International
Libyan Forces Batter Misrata; Blueprint for a New Libya; Libyan Woman Faces Charges; Syrian Cabinet Quits; Twenty One Killed in Iraq Attack; Radioactive Water Contained; Japan Needs Replacement Crews; Battling Toxic Water and Soil; The Fight for Libya's Future; Women versus Wal-Mart; Angry Birds All The Rage; The Help Desk; Talk Back Question; Immigrant Guest Worker Law

Suzanne Malveaux, Martin Savidge, Paula Hancocks, Kyung Lah, Carol Costello, Michael Holmes, Kate Bolduan, Kyung Lah, Dan Simon, Stephanie Elam, Carol Costello, Thelma Gutierrez      
7,741 words
29 March 2011
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
English
©2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. All rights reserved. Prepared by CQ Transcriptions, LLC.      

SUZANNE MALVEAUX, CNN ANCHOR: Top of the hour. I'm Suzanne Malveaux. Let's get you up to speed.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

MALVEAUX (voice-over): Gadhafi forces appear to have launched an all-out assault on Misrata today. A resident says Libyan forces are shelling civilians. He also tells CNN troops are forcing people from their homes and housing them in mosque and schools.

Sirte, Moammar Gadhafi's hometown, government fighters stopped the rebel's westward drive cold today. The opposition swept out over Benghazi over the weekend and the fighters met little resistance until today.

A London conference today to plan for a post-Gadhafi Libya. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is there for the United States. She met with Libyan opposition figure Mahmoud Ja Brill on the sidelines of the summit.

A Libyan woman who frantically told foreign journalists she had been gang-raped by Gadhafi's forces is now facing criminal charges. Eman Al Obedi is charged with slandering the men she accused of rape.

Obedi hasn't been seen since she was hauled off Saturday, even though the regime claims it released her. I spoke with CNN photojournalist Khalil Abdallah just this last hour from Tripoli. He was right in the middle of Saturday's dramatic events.

KHALIL ABDALLAH, CNN PHOTOJOURNALIST: She went into graphic details and into the suffering that she's been through during the two days where she was raped and we started filming.

Government officials and government minders immediately tried to take her away. Journalists tried to protect her and hold her and listen to her story. They wanted to shut cameras. They were pushing, shoving people. Eventually they escalated to where they were beating some journalists.

Syrians jammed downtown Damascus today cheering for President Basher al Assad. The Syrian leader's cabinet resigned just a short time ago and it's widely reported that he's going to ease a five-decade-old emergency law. The reforms follow antigovernment protest in southern Syria.

In Iraq today, men wearing police uniforms and explosive vests seized a government building in Takrit and took dozens of hostages. They detonated their bombs as police approached killing 21 people. The country's interior ministry blames al Qaeda in Iraq.

Officials in Japan say they've got radioactive water bottled up for now at the Fukushima nuclear complex. Workers plan to pump the water from basements and tunnels, but all the storage tanks are now full. Crews have poured tons of water on the nuclear reactors trying to cool them.

And Japan's government wants replacement crews to take over at Fukushima. Some 400 workers have been on the job now for 2- 1/2 weeks, sleeping on mats and stairs, living on crackers and vegetable juice.

Our CNN's Paula Hancocks tells us they're also dealing with their own personal tragedies.

PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The plant worker writes, my parents were washed away by the tsunami and I still don't know where they are. In another e-mail they write, crying is useless. If we're in hell now, all we can do is crawl up towards heaven.

MALVEAUX: An uplifting moment in Japan. A sixth grade class went ahead with its graduation program today. The children's school and town for that matter is destroyed. Our CNN's Kyung Lah was there.

KYUNG LAH, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Despite their grief, these parents standing in this unheated evacuation center were determined to hold this graduation because this is all the parents can give the students of the elementary school.

(on camera): First, the tsunami came through and flooded through this school. Then a gas explosion sparked a fire that burned through the town and destroyed this building. Through all of that, the students at Osuchi Elementary all survived. And in that way, these children have become a symbol of hope for this community.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

MALVEAUX: Workers at Japan's crippled nuclear plant are struggling to keep those reactors cool. At the same time, they're having to deal with radioactive water.

Our CNN's Martin Savidge is in Tokyo. It's early Wednesday morning there. Marty, tell us what's being done with trying to store this radioactive water?

MARTIN SAVIDGE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, right now it's a delicate balance, Suzanne. What they're trying to do is limit the amount of water that they pour to keep all those reactors cool. The bare minimum so that they don't get such a tremendous amount runoff, which is they've been battling with.

What they have to do is they've got to drain it out of place like the basements and out of the cable runs, the tunnels that run throughout the facility. But as you pointed out, their problem is they have no places to put the water.

They thought they had two sites they looked at them, they're absolutely full. This is highly radioactive water. So it isn't something you just load in a truck and then haul it off out of the site.

It's going to have to remain on site. But right now, they're going to have to find containers so far they have not done that. Unless they get the water out, that's only when at the can begin making the repairs that have to be done, Suzanne.

MALVEAUX: Marty, you broke the news on this program yesterday about now discovering plutonium in the soil, very dangerous situation. What is the latest on that?

SAVIDGE: Well, this is a real concern out there because the plutonium is by far the most toxic material to date that they have discovered. It was found in very trace amounts, very small, but in five different locations in the soil, three different types of plutonium.

And initially when the release came out from the company about this discovery, they implied, well, it might possibly have been a holdover from the cold war days of nuclear atomic air testing. Now they say that's not the case. They clearly have identified that this has come from one of the reactors on site. They're not sure which one.

We talked about reactor three having plutonium, but plutonium is really a byproduct of the nuclear reactor so it could be any of the reactors there. But again, very serious to be found and an indication that it has come from some sort of catastrophic damage to one of the reactors or it may have come from the fuel rods.

Either way, you don't want to find any more of it. Unfortunately they're doing more testing to make sure they don't, but no one knows until results come in.

MALVEAUX: Some dangerous stuff there. What about these workers? Folks have been there for 2-1/2 weeks, trying to figure out what to do to prevent this nuclear meltdown. They've been taken out. They've been brought in. Any plans to replace those people who have been on the ground and have made the ultimate sacrifice really?

SAVIDGE: They really have. I mean, Paula's story there depicting kind of their life. They are considered to be heroes and they do work under extremely stressful, not to mention physically challenging, conditions and all the while having to try to maintain the control there.

I mean, it really is an unimaginable lifestyle. And, yes, because of that they would like to replace some of the workers. But the reality is, you can't just bring in a bunch of people who haven't been dealing with the circumstance.

I mean, these people know the delicate balance, and, as much as you would like to replace them and get fresh people in there, you don't want to lose the experience. So I think they're going 0 to have to be very careful with this. So the message is, yes, we'd like to replace you. The question is, can we really afford to replace you?

MALVEAUX: Very much a catch-22. Marty Savidge, thank you.

President Obama is making his case for intervening in Libya. He says the United States has a responsibility to act, which brings us to today's "Talk Back" question. Our Carol Costello joining us. A lot of people weighing in on this, Carol?

CAROL COSTELLO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We're getting a lot of buzz. President Obama's speech was about more than Libya and what we're doing there. It was about his doctrine, the Obama doctrine.

You know, his military principle or set of strategies for taking the country to war. You might remember the Bush doctrine. Come on, I know you do and I know what some of you are thinking. Sarah Palin didn't, but I'm not going there.

I will simply refresh your memory. The Bush doctrine says the United States will not hesitate to act alone, if necessary, to exercise our right of self-defense by acting preemptively against terrorists. It was easy to understand because President Bush laid it out in black and white.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

GEORGE W. BUSH, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: Every nation, in every region, now has a decision to make. Either you're with us or you are with the terrorists.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MALVEAUX: But President Obama's doctrine is way more subtle.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: Given the costs and risks of intervention, we must always measure our interests against the need for action. But that cannot be an argument for never acting on behalf of what's right.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

COSTELLO: To spell it out for you, according to the Obama doctrine, the United States can intervene abroad when our safety is not directly threatened but our interests and values are like preventing the massive slaughter of civilians in Libya.

Critics say, OK, but does that mean we intervene everywhere if the situation is against our moral principles, if we have international support?

So "Talk Back" today. Do you buy into the Obama doctrine? Facebook your comments to me, facebook.com/carolcnn. And I'll read your responses later this hour.

MALVEAUX: There's so many potential hot spots where tragedy could occur. We're talking about Ivory Coast, Zimbabwe so many different places. I'd like to see if you can put the Obama doctrine to the test. Do you intervene?

COSTELLO: The other thing is the endgame, certainly not spelled out in President Obama's speech last night. How does that figure into his doctrine or the reasons that the United States takes military action.

MALVEAUX: Right. All right, I'm looking forward to hearing what people have to say. Thanks, Carol.

Here's a look at what's ahead. On the rundown, the view from Libyan American watching the fight for control over his home country.

Plus -- we've got dramatic events in Syria. What it all means for the United States now?

And also -- shared suffering. The human thread connecting the victims of the Japanese tsunami.

And women versus Wal-Mart. Behind the headlines of a major discrimination case that is now before the Supreme Court.

And finally, angry birds? It's a hot game turning into a marketing phenomenon.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

MALVEAUX: Libyan-Americans are watching anxiously as the fight for the future of their home country rages on. Mahmoud Kaheel came to the United States in the mid-1970s when he was just 19 years old.

He is now founder and director of a mosque in Tampa, Florida, he's lived in the United States for the past 35 years. Well, he's joining us now from Tampa.

And, Kaheel, thank you for being here. Obviously, as a Libyan- American, I wonder if you see things differently. These events that are unfolding in Libya as some of the rest of us do.

What is your reaction, your response when you see the kinds of battle that are happening in your home country?

MAHMOUD KAHEEL, MASJID (MOSQUE) OMAR ALMOKHTAR: Well, what we see, we see a tyrant that is not willing to let go of power. He just wants to cling to power at any cost. This man basically ran Libya into the ground, basically destroyed everything we had before the era of the kingdom.

We had excellent education. We had excellent health care, excellent public service sector. It was all gone, all gone, basically everything is degraded. Everything is now done through bribery and who you know, to get everything done.

MALVEAUX: Sure.

KAHEEL: Any procedure that will take you 15 minutes to do with the state, it takes you two to three weeks to complete. So it's really left Libya in bad shape, in addition to looting.

MALVEAUX: A very frustrating situation there. Do you know people who are still in Libya? Have they reached out to you over the last couple of weeks or so? What are they telling you about their fate?

KAHEEL: You cannot speak much over the phone because those phones are monitored, OK? So there's limited contact over the phone. When we had the internet, we were able to communicate over Skype and we were speaking freely and they all for the revolution.

They're just tired and fed up of having this family looting the Libyan treasury and leaving the country in ruin the way they are doing right now.

MALVEAUX: Mahmoud, I want you to take a listen here to President Obama from last night, when he addressed not only the United States, but he also addressed the world about the mission inside of Libya.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Some nations may be able to turn a blind eye to atrocities in other countries. The United States of America is different and, as president, I refuse to wait for the images of slaughter and mass graves before taking action.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MALVEAUX: Mahmoud, do you think the president is doing the right thing, that he's taking the right action here?

KAHEEL: Certainly, certainly. That day when they interceded and start heading Gadhafi's military machine in the border of Benghazi, they prevented a lot of mass killing. They prevented a slaughter, literally. It's a city of 1 million people.

MALVEAUX: Certainly.

KAHEEL: I'm sorry?

MALVEAUX: As a Libyan-American, do you feel there's anything else that the United States should be doing to protect the Libyan people?

KAHEEL: Yes. There's a lot we can do, and it does not really require a lot of intervention, hitting that propaganda machine for Gadhafi, his television station. That's not going to require aloft work to do. A couple of antennas and it's all over.

Restoring the internet for the public so you can get more valid intelligence from the ground about what's going on in Libya. Destroying his ability to listen on those phone conversations, for example that's also something we could do easily, technically it could be done easily.

You know, arming the Libyan rebel with light, light arm. We're not asking for B-52s, you know. We're asking for stuff that we can fight.

MALVEAUX: Thank you, Kaheel. I'm sorry to interrupt. We've run out of time here, but thank you for your perspective. We appreciate it.

KAHEEL: Thank you.

MALVEAUX: Well, the government in Syria today stepping down, what does it mean for stability in this pivotal nation? What is next? Michael Holmes is here to break it down.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

MALVEAUX: We have three stories all covering issues that hit home for millions of Americans. We want you to let us know which one you would like most to see on CNN NEWSROOM.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MALVEAUX (voice-over): Your first choice, how is the United States monitoring radiation from Japan? We've got an upclose look at the equipment used to keep an eye on it.

Your second choice, illegal immigration law controversy. One state's proposed law enabling illegal immigrants to become guest workers draws death threats for its author and questions about whether or not it's even constitutional.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Everyone can benefit and we don't leave a bunch of tragedies along the way.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Tragedies such as what?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, broken families.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think it's very discriminatory against people who live in the other parts of the world who are trying to legally and lawfully get into this country.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MALVEAUX: And almost one year after the big BP oil spill in the Gulf, the cleanup stops on one Alabama beach. Is the job really done?

So vote by texting 22360, vote one for monitoring radiation levels, two, for illegal immigration law controversy or three for beach oil cleanup stops. The winning story airs later this hour.

After weeks of protests, the Syrian government now is resigning. That is according to state television. We are also expecting what could be a historic speech from President Basher al Assad in the next couple of days.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MALVEAUX: Now this news comes as tens of thousands of Syrians poured into the streets of Damascus today to demonstrate in favor of al Assad. But this is all just days after brutal fights between protestors and security forces in Syria.

At least 37 people have been killed since last week, according to the United Nations. Our Michael Holmes is here with more on our globe trekking segment essentially.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MALVEAUX: Michael, it might be confusing, but we've seen real violent antigovernment protests. What do we think is taking place here?

MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT: You know, it's a government-organized protest. It's worth remembering that people were given the day off to go along and attend it. But also it's important to remember that Basher al Assad does have a level of popularity in Syria.

He's not his father in many ways, Hafez al Assad who ruled with the proverbial iron fist for 30 years. He came in trying to do reforms at the beginning. None of it got done. Why?

Because it's a hard-line regime. He's not the only guy running things. He's the face of it all, a lot of hard-liners behind the scenes who were saying no, they want a crackdown because they know if the Assad family falls so too do they.

MALVEAUX: What do we suppose is going to be the outcome of all of this, when you take a look at the symbolic, I guess, gesture? Is this similar to what we've seen in Egypt and Tunisia perhaps?

HOLMES: It's probably more akin to Bahrain really in reverse because you've got there a Sunni minority leading a Shia majority. In Syria, it's different. You got a Sunni majority and (inaudible), which is a sect of Shiite Islam running things.

A couple of things that point out, the government resigning doesn't mean much at all. In these sorts of regimes, the government is really just a front there. It's a very different sort of setup there. The government doesn't mean much.

It's really Assad and his regime that are running things. You know, so in terms of what happens next, it's very difficult to say as we've had all the way through all of this, you know?

MALVEAUX: All right, Michael. I know you're going to join us again tomorrow to talk a little bit about the Arab situation, the instability in the region and what it could mean for al Qaeda. Thanks, Michael.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

The nation's highest court, big bucks now in play. It involves Wal-Mart charged with discrimination and a chance the case could grow into more than 1.5 million.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

MALVEAUX: Here's a look at what's ahead on "The Rundown." Women versus Wal-Mart. In just a few minutes, the potential class action lawsuit that could impact employers across the country.

Plus, relatives of the dead and missing in Japan still searching for closure.

And angry birds getting their revenge? Flying from Smartphones to the big screen.

And now, the justices at the U.S. Supreme Court have been hearing arguments this morning on a discrimination lawsuit against Wal-Mart. At issue, whether to grant class action status, which could involve a lot more women. Our CNN's Kate Bolduan explains.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm just one fish in a great big pond.

KATE BOLDUAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It started with six strangers in California. Chris Kwapnoski is one of them.

CHRISTINE KWAPNOSKI, FILING LAWSUIT AGAINST WAL-MART: I'm a fighter, if nothing else. So are all the other women involved.

BOLDUAN: Kwapnoski has worked at Sam's club, part of the Wal- Mart brand, for more than two decades. She says she's been paid less than her male counterparts and passed over for promotions for years.

KWAPNOSKI: They kept hiring men off the street. Men who never had even a day's worth of Sam's club experience were coming in and I was the one training them. I always outworked them, always outlasted them.

BOLDUAN: So Kwapnoski and five other women who worked at Wal- Mart are suing the company in a high-stakes gender discrimination case, seeking backpack pay and punitive damages.

(on camera): Someone says, it's just one bad supervisor or it's a couple bad supervisors. Is it worth taking the entire company on?

KWAPNOSKI: It's just not one supervisor, though. It's supervisor after supervisor after supervisor. I mean, one leaves and another one comes in to take their place with pretty much the same mentality.

BOLDUAN (voice-over): A case that started small is now so much more. A class action lawsuit against the mega retailer employing more than 1.4 million people in the U.S.

(on camera): The lawsuit began here at this Wal-Mart in Pittsburg, California, a decade ago. Now the original six women in the case could expand to nearly every female Wal-Mart employee, past and present, some 1.5 million women, making this the largest job discrimination case in U.S. history.

(voice-over): Wal-Mart is fighting back, arguing these allegations are isolated, that there's no so-called corporate culture or nationwide pattern of gender bias at their 4,300 facilities.

THEODORE BOUTROUS, ATTORNEY FOR WAL-MART: I think Wal-Mart has a very strong policy against discrimination and in favor of diversity, and it works hard to instill that throughout the company, throughout the stores.

GISEL RUIZ, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, WAL-MART: Our company culture is about providing all associates opportunities to advance and grow.

BOLDUAN: And they've launched a national pr campaign to show that.

ANNOUNCER: At Wal-Mart, we're thinking big about diversity and inclusion.

BOLDUAN: The Supreme Court, though, isn't weighing in on whether the women's discrimination claims are valid. Rather, it's deciding the more technical yet closely watched question -- Can they file as a class, or do they have to fight Wal-Mart individually?

KWAPNOSKI: It's just Wal-Mart's way of trying to stalemate us. They know we're right, and they just -- they don't want to admit it.

BOLDUAN (on camera): What the Justices decide could reach far beyond Wal-Mart to companies big and small, some in the business community fearing the outcome could open them up to a flood of frivolous lawsuits costing jobs and hurting the economy. We expect a ruling by the end of June.

Kate Bolduan, CNN, at the Supreme Court.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

MALVEAUX: Joining us from outside the Supreme Court, Catholic University Law school professor and author of a casebook on class action lawsuits and an article on the Wal-Mart case specifically for the "Harvard Law and Policy Journal" is Suzette Malveaux, who also happens to be my sister. Full disclosure.

Good to see you, Suzette. You just got out of the courtroom.

SUZETTE MALVEAUX, LAW PROFESSOR, THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY OF AMERICA: Hi.

SUZANNE MALVEAUX: Hi, Zan.

Why is this case so important to the women who are charging discrimination against Wal-Mart, that this should be a group or a class action lawsuit?

SUZETTE MALVEAUX: This has been an amazing warning, Zan. This case is so important for women because a class action is really the only effective way of challenging widespread discrimination. If you're by yourself, you're probably not likely, you're too afraid to challenge your employer, especially in this economy. And if you think about it, may not be able to afford a lawyer.

So, it's important women come together and are able to use the class action to empower themselves to go up against a giant like Wal- Mart. It really levels the playing field and gives them a chance to have their day in court.

SUZANNNE MALVEAUX: And so we caught up with one of the plaintiffs, one of the women who was complaining about Wal-Martdiscrimination. I want to roll a quick clip, if we can, to listen to what she's got to say.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHRISTINE KWAPNOSKI, FILING LAWSUIT AGAINST WAL-MART: That was actually before I got promoted, when I was asking what I needed to do. I was told to blow the cobwebs off my makeup and to doll up.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SUZANNE MALVEAUX: "Blow the cobwebs off and doll up." That's some pretty harsh stuff there, those allegations. And I'm assuming that Wal-Mart is hitting back as well as other big companies, really concerned about this particular case, watching very closely. Why do you suppose?

SUZETTE MALVEAUX: Well, there's certainly a lot at stake here. If you think about, from Wal-Mart's vantage point, they feel it's not fair to lump all of these individual, different cases together, that this is not fair because you have one woman across the country has one situation, very different than somebody elsewhere.

And so for them, a lot is at stake. If you add all of these cases together, it may turn out that Wal-Mart will have to pay billions of dollars. So, clearly a lot of the business community is focused on that reality.

SUZANNE MALVEAUX: And we've got a little bit more time here. I want to ask you really quickly, there was a lot that happened outside the Supreme Court this morning. I know you got in because you're part of a group that follows Supreme Court cases. But there were a lot of everyday folks, folks, who were there from like 2:00 in the morning?

SUZETTE MALVEAUX: Sure. Yes, it was amazing. I mean, it was really cold outside. We had people here 2:00 in the morning wrapped in blankets, waiting -- a couple hundred people. I think at least half of them were never allowed in the courthouse. I mean, if you were here at 6:30, you got turned away. And the courthouse doesn't even open until 7:00. People were clamoring to get in and see this oral argument because they understand just how important this case is to women all over the country.

SUZANNE MALVEAUX: All right. Thank you very much. Obviously a very important case, very good to see you, Suzette.

SUZETTE MALVEAUX: Yes! Great, thanks, Zan.

SUZANNE MALVEAUX: Thanks.

Well, here is a reminder about your choices for choose the news. We have three stories that affect millions much Americans. So, you vote by texting 22360 for the story that you'd like to see in detail at the end of the hour. Vote 1 for the story on monitoring U.S. radiation levels. Vote 2 for one state's illegal immigration law controversy, and vote 3 for the beach cleanup that stops on a strip of Alabama coastline, polluted now by the BP oil spill.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You know, constantly, seven days a week, and I think that they did a real good job.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You know good and well there's tons of oil out in the Gulf still. Yes, they're going to have to come back.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MALVUEAX: Make your pick and we'll show your choice in a few minutes.

Death and coping. A look at how Japanese families are pushing on after the quake and tsunami disaster.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

MALVEAUX: The death toll from Japan's quake and tsunami is now almost 11,000 people. More than 17,000 are still missing. Our CNN's Kyung Lah talks to grieving friends and relatives who are trying to cope with this tragedy.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

KYUNG LAH, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): In the new normal of Japan's tsunami zone there is no time to grieve. Sixteen- year-old Huroki Sukuwara (ph) is underneath this blanket. His parents and two brothers drove his body to the emergency shelter for the best farewell they could offer in the wake of the tsunami.

"Don't give up hope." Huroki's father tells his friends. "Keep living for my son."

This car side tribute to a life stolen young ends in minutes. His father covers his teenage son and says goodbye.

The disaster's toll is measured not just in damage but in human suffering. Ninety-three year old Matsio Iriohana (ph) barely escaped the tsunami but is sick and getting worse by the day in the evacuation center. "I don't know what to do," says her granddaughter, Emiko Sato. "I'm just trying to take this day by day."

"That's all any victim can do." says Keiko Naganuma.

Seven or eight of my family is missing, she says, including her oldest son, eight-year-old Koto (ph), presumed dead, his body washed away from his school by the tsunami.

Of 100 students at Ishinomaki Okawa (ph) Elementary, 77 are dead or missing. The school gutted by the tsunami. Backpack after backpack sits for parents to retrieve along with a picture of the school little league, the bats they used, art bags filled with crayons.

"I'm not OK," she says, "of course, I'm not, but I have another son." I can see he's pretending to be happy so we don't worry about him. So mother joins and pretends for her son and for herself.

But pretending is not an option for city crews, victims themselves who cry as they work.

"I don't want to lose my hometown. I want it to come back. We won't give up." he says. A fighting spirit that keeps this region from crumbling. The son who won't leave the wreckage of his home until he can find his parent's body. The hometown boy who pledges to rebuild despite that nearly every part of this town is leveled. And the newborn babies, Yuma (ph) and Yukia (ph), just days old, small signs, say their homeless mothers, that the next chapter in the rebirth of a region can be written.

Kyung Lah, CNN in Northern Japan, tsunami zone.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

MALVEUAX: Angry Birds already the rage on smartphones everywhere. Now the game of Revenge exploding into a global phenomenon.

Our CNN Silicon Valley correspondent Dan Simon joining us live. Dan, my niece just showed me this over the weekend. Seems like it's contagious.

DAN SIMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, you know what? This is where technology meets pop culture, right? The phenomenon that is Angry Birds is actually spawned a fierce Internet debate on whether it has earned its right to go next to Pac Man as one of the biggest video games of all time. We'll let others do the debating here, but clearly this is a game that's caught fire.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SIMON (voice-over): Since it debuted on the iPhone two years ago, Angry Birds has become more than just a popular game. It's now on its way to becoming a global brand. Rovio, the Finnish computer game developer, started selling Angry Birds merchandise last year. It expected maybe a few thousand buyers. That was a bit off.

PETER VERSTERBACKA, ROVIO: These are the toys we started making, and we sold 2 million of these plush toys. So, that's been kind of like, really phenomenal.

SIMON: Peter Versterbacka heads Angry Birds business development. He has no shortage of opportunities. The game can be played on almost every conceivable platform, has been downloaded 100 million times.

Now, Rovio has its eyes set on Hollywood, with ambitions for an Angry Birds movie or television cartoon.

VERSTERBACKA: What we're really in the process of making here is kind of like the next generation entertainment franchise.

SIMON: Next month, Twentieth Century Fox is coming out with Rio, an animated film about birds. So, that spawned yet another version of the game, Angry Birds Rio, along with a creative way to promote it. Not surprisingly, Angry Birds Rio is now the most popular game on iTunes.

If you're watching all this and still don't have a clue about what "Angry Birds" is, here's all you need to know. Players use a slingshot to launch birds at pigs on different structures. Destroy all the pigs and advance to the next screen until you complete all the levels. Simple enough for a toddler.

SIMON (on camera): Why do you think it's caught on the way it has?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's really difficult to say. I think that it's a combination of many, many things. But, of course, "Angry Birds" is one of the first games that's really optimized for the touch devices. You know, the iPhones and iPads and all that. So it really works great for touch.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

SIMON: Well, "Angry Birds" cost about $100,000 to make, which is pretty modest for a video game. I'd say that was a pretty good investment. It is bringing in the company Rovio in excess of $1 million each month, Suzanne.

MALVEAUX: All right, Dan, thanks. I'll have to give it a try. Thank you, Dan.

Well, we're getting quite a few responses to our "Talk Back" question. Do you buy into the Obama doctrine? Shannon says, "yes, I absolutely support the Obama doctrine. It is refreshing to have a leader who recognizes and supports the true nature of an international community." More of your responses up ahead.

STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: It's time now for "The Help Desk," where we get answers to your financial questions. With me right now, Donna Rosato. She's a senior editor at "Money." And Lynnette Khalfani-Cox is a writer for walletpop.com.

Thank you so much for being here with us.

Our first question is from Jeff in Michigan. And he writes in, "I am underwater on my home, but no one will help me because I am unemployed. I have paid my mortgage on time, but I've been told that I could get help if I stop. What should I do?"

Donna, we hear this so often.

DONNA ROSATO, SENIOR EDITOR, "MONEY": Oh, yes. It's never a good idea to stop paying your mortgage. And I know he's in a tough situation where he's unemployed, but last year the Obama administration did expanded some programs to help people like this young man here. And one of the things he can do is apply for a loan modification, which may help him reduce the amount of payments or he can get a suspension on his home mortgage payments. But he really needs some good advice to do this and what I recommend is calling Housing and Urban Development, a HUD-vetted counselor, which he can do through the Making Homes Affordable Program. The number is 888-995- HOPE. And he can also Google Making Homes Affordable program and get advice about what's best for his situation. But, you know, the damage to your credit score by stopping paying on your mortgage is really long term and he wants to try to avoid that if possible.

ELAM: And there should be some help for people who are actually making their payments despite their personal situation.

ROSATO: Sure.

ELAM: All right, our next question is from Brad in Arizona. He says, "I'm 31 years old and I'm just now at the stage of being able to save for my future instead of living paycheck to paycheck. I'm interested in investing in gold. Where should I start?"

Lynnette.

LYNNETTE KHALFANI-COX, WRITER, WALLETPOP.COM: You shouldn't start with gold, I can tell you that.

ELAM: I thought you might say that.

KHALFANI-COX: I'm sorry to tell you. You know, he's probably seen -- there's been a huge run-up in gold prices lately, but gold just hit a record high. And so you don't necessarily want to buy in at the top. I'm not saying gold doesn't have more room to go, but if you've just stopped living paycheck to paycheck and you're getting started in investing, gold isn't where you want to start.

First of all, if you just stopped living paycheck to paycheck, before you invest anywhere, you need to do two quick things. Get an emergency cash cushion. You know, $500 to maybe $1,500 in case something goes wrong in your life. The car engine goes out. The roof leaks. Whatever.

Then start saving for the long term, three to six months worth of your expenses you need to amass in case you lose a job or in case some other long term unexpected thing happens. Then you start investing.

And, again, I'd suggest something like mutual funds, index mutual funds, low cost index mutual funds. But I would not get started investing with gold.

ELAM: Start putting away for your future if you haven't been able to do that. Then you can go think about those high price (INAUDIBLE) metals.

KHALFANI-COX: That's a little later.

ELAM: All right, well, Donna and Lynnette, thanks so much. Of course, if you have a question you want to get answered, we'd love to help you. So send us an e-mail anytime to cnnhelpdesk@cnn.com.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

MALVEAUX: President Obama defending the mission. He says intervening in Libya saved countless civilian lives and the U.S. has a responsibility to act. Our Carol Costello, she joins us for today's "Talk Back."

And, Carol, I know a lot of people weighed in on this one.

CAROL COSTELLO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: A lot of buzz about this one.

President Obama, last night, offered up his reasons for military action in Libya. The Obama doctrine, so to speak, which is the U.S. can intervene abroad for moral reasons when our safety is not directly threatened but our interests and values are. So today's "Talk Back" question, do you buy into the Obama doctrine?

This from Cynthia. "How selfish are people in America really? How can we, as human beings, sit back and watch people get slaughtered? I love that he said we had to decide and we cannot use the excuse not to act."

This from Tarek. "For the first time in a while, the Arabs are singing our praises, not just Libyans either, even some Palestinians, instead of burning our flag. That has to count for something, right?"

This from Susan. "Absolutely agree with President Obama. His doctrine was very clearly stated. We will look carefully at each international incident and choose how we will react on a case-by-case basis. We'll choose our actions wisely. This is genius," she says.

This from Alex. "Yes, what happened to patriotism in this country? I fail to believe how more people supported attacking Iraq than people do now for Libya. It makes me sick."

Please continue the conversation, facebook.com/carolcnn.

MALVEAUX: So, Carol, I remember when President Bush announced his own doctrine about preemptive strikes. It really made a lot of people nervous and worried about the U.S. position in the world. What do you get a sense from the viewers, do they prefer the Bush doctrine or the Obama doctrine? Is there a split there?

COSTELLO: Well, at least from our FaceBook page, more people seem to buy into the Obama doctrine a lot more than they buy into the Bush doctrine, although I must say, we all know how Iraq came out, not so good, right? So it would be probably pretty logical that people would be more in tune with the Obama doctrine right now than the Bush doctrine since, you know, Iraq, with no post-war plan, you know, we're still embroiled in that conflict.

MALVEAUX: Right, right.

COSTELLO: We spent millions and millions and millions of dollars. So it's easy to say, oh, I'm not buying into the Bush doctrine anymore.

MALVEAUX: All right, Carol, thank you. Appreciate it.

COSTELLO: Sure.

MALVEAUX: Well, three stories, three big issues. You had your choice. "Choose The News" winner moments away.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

MALVEAUX: You choose the story you wanted to see. Well, you chose it. Utah passes a bill enacting the nation's first guest worker law. Here's CNN's Thelma Gutierrez.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

THELMA GUTIERREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Bill Wright is a dairy farmer who says he's as conservative as they come. A staunch Republican who believes in a common sense approach to solving problems. So when the federal government failed to come up with comprehensive immigration reform, Wright said he wanted Utah to take the lead.

GUTIERREZ (on camera): Why get involved with immigration?

BILL WRIGHT, UTAH STATE HOUSE: For three or four years now all I'd heard was enforcement, enforcement.

GUTIERREZ (voice-over): We met up with State Representative Bill Wright on his ranch in Utah to talk about a brand new law he sponsored, HB-116, the nation's first guest worker permit law that would allow Utah's undocumented immigrants to work legally.

WRIGHT: I believe in real solutions. It's common sense that is helpful for both sides, that everybody can benefit and we don't leave a bunch of tragedies along the way.

GUTIERREZ (on camera): Tragedies such as what?

WRIGHT: Well, broken families.

GUTIERREZ (voice-over): This woman we'll call Kathy (ph) has lived in Utah for 18 years. She has an MBA, a job and she pays taxes.

KATHY: Being in the shadows, you're afraid of everything.

GUTIERREZ: Kathy entered the country legally on a student visa. At the time, she was given a Social Security Number. The visa has since expired. Under the new law, Kathy and an estimated 110,000 undocumented immigrants who lived and worked in Utah before May of this year could apply for a guest worker permit. They'd have to pass a criminal background check and pay up to $2,500 in fines and study English.

Wesley Smith with the Salt Lake City Chamber says undocumented immigrants like Kathy contribute $2.3 billion to Utah's economy.

WESLEY SMITH, SALT LAKE CHAMBER: Business is very pleased with a lot of our champions up there on the hill who did what we think is the right thing.

GUTIERREZ: But before the law can be enacted, the federal government would first have to grant the state a waiver, making it legal to employ people who have entered the U.S. illegally, a federal crime. That's something Utah Tea Party activist Dave Kirkham says will never happen. He calls the law unconstitutional and unfair.

DAVID KIRKHAM, UTAH TEA PARTY: I think it's very discriminatory against people who live in other parts of the world who are trying legally and lawfully to get into this country.

GUTIERREZ (on camera): How far will you go to take action against those who defended it?

KIRKHAM: The Utah Tea Party, I'm very confident, will challenge everyone who signed this bill.

GUTIERREZ: So you want them out of office.

KIRKHAM: Yes, I do.

GUTIERREZ (voice-over): Bill Wright says he's already feeling the heat, angry e-mails, even death threats.

GUTIERREZ (on camera): You're not afraid?

WRIGHT: I'm not afraid.

GUTIERREZ (voice-over): He says he's unfazed by the political fallout.

WRIGHT: I don't need to be in office to verify who I am.

GUTIERREZ: Thelma Gutierrez, CNN, Salt Lake City, Utah.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

MALVEAUX: CNN NEWSROOM continues right now with Randi Kaye, in for Ali Velshi.

Hey, Randi.

Content and programming copyright 2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP.    ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.    This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.      

Document NWSRM00020110329e73t000b5



Top Court Hears Arguments in Wal-Mart Suit

318 words
29 March 2011
Penton Insight
NSGHT
Online Exclusive - Supermarket News
English
© 2011 Penton Business Media. All rights reserved.      

WASHINGTON — Justices of the U.S. Supreme Court — hearing arguments Tuesday involving the sex-discrimination lawsuit against Wal-Mart Stores — questioned whether the class-action suit should go forward.

The suit, filed in 2001 on behalf of current and former female workers who currently number almost 3 million, alleges that Wal-Mart systematically paid women less than men and provided fewer opportunities for promotion.

The Supreme Court is expected to issue a decision by summer, according to published reports.

The Associated Press quoted Justice Anthony Kennedy as saying he is unsure "what the unlawful policy is" that Wal-Mart engaged in, and Justice Antonin Scalia said he felt "whipsawed" by the issue, asking, “Which is it? Either individual managers are on their own [in making decisions] or else a strong corporate culture tells them what to do."

However, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who brought discrimination claims to court when she was a practicing lawyer, said the issue at this point is not to prove whether discrimination existed but simply to show whether there is enough evidence to allow the case to go forward. “We're talking about getting a foot in the door," she said — a standard she said is not hard to meet.

Joseph Sellers, the lawyer for the plaintiffs, said lower courts that ruled in favor of the discrimination lawsuit going forward were persuaded by statistical and other evidence that a strong corporate culture at Wal-Mart stereotyped women as less aggressive than men, which translated into lower pay and fewer promotions. "The decisions are informed by the values the company provides," Sellers explained.

However, Theodore Boutros Jr., an attorney representing Wal-Mart, said, "There is absolutely no way there can be a fair process here," noting that at least 544 women serve as Wal-Mart store managers and subsequently "are alleged to be both discriminators and victims."

Document NSGHT00020110329e73t000ct



Capitol Report
News & Commentary
Debit-card fee debate focuses on the unknown

Steve Goldstein, MarketWatch      
MarketWatch; sgoldstein@marketwatch.com; Steve Goldstein is MarketWatch's Washington bureau chief.      
953 words
29 March 2011
03:34 PM
MarketWatch
MRKWC
English
Copyright 2011 MarketWatch, Inc.    All Rights Reserved.      

WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) — The phrase “unintended consequences” has rarely been uttered as often as by the representatives of the banks, retailers, consumers and network operators that gathered here Tuesday to discuss the proposed debit-card interchange fee rules that are due to go in effect later this year.

At issue is a proposal by the Federal Reserve, that the Dodd-Frank banking reform law mandated the central bank draw up, that would cut the fees that debit-card network operators like Visa   and MasterCard  charge retailers by up to 84%.

The rule is of course detested by the network operators — “a drive-by shooting on due process,” says MasterCard Worldwide executive Chris McWilton — but also by the banks that receive some $12 billion a year off those fees. And those lenders have mounted a ferocious lobbying campaign to delay if not kill off the proposal altogether.

The action is focused on the Democratic-controlled Senate, since the House is reluctant for its members to alienate either banks or retailers if delaying efforts aren’t likely to succeed in any event. And via Montana Senator Jon Tester, a law has been introduced that would delay the law by two years. Illinois Senator Dick Durbin, also a Democrat, is leading the charge for the Fed proposal to go into effect, as he was the author of the so-called “Durbin amendment” on interchange fees.

Tuesday’s debate at a PYMNTS.com gathering was focused less on the action on the Hill and more on the economics.

To Richard Schmalensee, a MIT professor who acknowledges receiving banking funding for his study, the impact would be pretty straightforward.

The large merchants — think Wal-Mart Stores  or Home Depot , whose chief financial officer estimates that annual profits will increase by $35 million a year if the Fed proposal goes into effect this summer — will slowly pass on some of the savings to customers. After all, on a $10 transaction, the savings amount to two cents; no company will rip up their price tags to re-price items from $9.99 to $9.97.

Less-competitive areas of the retailing industry, like movie theaters, won’t re-price at all, Schmalensee said.

The smaller retailers, who negotiate debit-card agreements over a fixed amount of time, will only gradually pass on savings since they won’t even benefit until their existing contracts run out.

Banks, however, will take immediate action, as debit fees account for roughly a fifth of checking account revenue. Already, a few lenders including J.P. Morgan Chase  have started to trial increased fees, and others like Wells Fargo  have started to phase out debit-card perks they have offered. And lower-income households that have only entered the banking system over the last decade will quickly find themselves bounced out because they’re not profitable enough.

“The rise of free checking wasn’t charity, it was that they were profitable,” said Schmalensee. “Now they are less attractive.”

Not everyone agrees with Schmalensee’s assessment. Some say the fee rises that already have occurred are more a lobbying gambit by the likes of J.P. Morgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon than an actual response to changed economics. And one regional player, PNC Financial Services  , has in fact pledged not to introduce such fees.

And then there’s the issue of the small banks. By law, the price rules don’t apply to those institutions with under $10 billion in assets. If anything, the Durbin amendment should be a boon to community banks, since the big banks may be tempted to hike fees at a time when the smaller lenders’ costs aren’t rising. New accounts should be coming the small banks’ way.

The 7,400 small banks, for their part, aren’t convinced, and for that matter nor is the Federal Reserve, which says it can’t be sure that small banks won’t be impacted. The small banks, said 1st National Bank of Scotia President John Buhrmaster, are fearful that the network operators won’t keep a two-tier pricing system even though they have pledged to do so.

And for that matter, Buhrmaster said, what’s to prevent the retailers from rigging up some way to steer business away from the small banks, notwithstanding laws that prevent discrimination (without enforcement, he notes).

And furthermore, why take action to promote the use of credit cards, which aren’t impacted by the Fed rules, and have consumers get further into debt?

National Retail Federation General Counsel Mallory Duncan replies that consumers have displayed a preference toward the speed and convenience of debit cards, as well as growing aversion to debt, that won’t soon be altered.

And as for more unintended consequences — could chip-and-pin card systems, of the kind that are popular in Europe, be introduced as banks shy away from the more-fraud-prevalent signature system that dominate today?

About all that was agreed was that Australia introduced similar debit-fee regulations in 2003. But what was the impact? The GAO in 2009 concluded there was no evidence that retail prices went lower as a result. On the flip side, there isn’t any evidence that Australian profit margins are on the rise, either.

In other words, no one knows.

The phrase “unintended consequences” has rarely been uttered as often as by the representatives of the banks, retailers, consumers and network operators that gathered here Tuesday to discuss the proposed debit-card interchange fee rules that are due to go in effect later this year.      

Document MRKWC00020110329e73t003ux



News & Commentary
Supreme Court hears arguments in Wal-Mart case

Andria Cheng, MarketWatch      
MarketWatch; acheng@marketwatch.com; Andria Cheng is a MarketWatch reporter based in New York.      
286 words
29 March 2011
11:10 AM
MarketWatch
MRKWC
English
Copyright 2011 MarketWatch, Inc.    All Rights Reserved.      

NEW YORK (MarketWatch) — In a closely watched case, the U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday began to hear oral arguments that will help it decide whether the sex-discrimination lawsuit against retail giant Wal-Mart Stores Inc. can proceed as a class action.

The Bentonville, Ark.-based retail giant  in August petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court to overturn a ruling by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals that a gender-discrimination lawsuit can proceed to trial as a class action, potentially exposing it to billions of dollars in damages.

If certified, the lawsuit would be the largest civil-rights class action filed against a private employer in U.S. history. An opinion by the Supreme Court is expected by the end of June.

The case was filed in 2001 in a San Francisco federal court by a woman, Betty Dukes, and five other current and former female Wal-Mart employees who alleged discrimination while working there. The suit alleged Wal-Martdiscriminated against women in promotions, pay, training and job assignments.

The trial judge granted a request by plaintiff’s lawyers to certify the case as a class action, with the class being every woman employed in any of Wal-Mart’s 3,400 stores over the past decade. Wal-Mart had estimated that upholding the class certification could make more than 1.5 million former and current female employees eligible to seek damages.

The high court will decide whether a sex-discrimination lawsuit against retail giant Wal-Mart Stores can proceed as a class action.      

Document MRKWC00020110329e73t002s1



Retail Stocks
News & Commentary
Retail stocks rise, led by Home Depot

Andria Cheng, MarketWatch      
MarketWatch; acheng@marketwatch.com; Andria Cheng is a MarketWatch reporter based in New York.      
649 words
29 March 2011
11:20 AM
MarketWatch
MRKWC
English
Copyright 2011 MarketWatch, Inc.    All Rights Reserved.      

NEW YORK (MarketWatch) — Retail stocks rose Tuesday after Dow component Home Depot Inc. said it’s issuing $2 billion of notes to refinance existing debt and to repurchase more shares.

Shares of Home Depot  rose 2.6% in midday trading.

The Atlanta-based company also reiterated its fiscal 2011 revenue and profit forecasts, saying that sales should climb 2.5% and diluted earnings from continuing operations should rise about 9.5% to $2.20 a share, excluding the impact of share repurchases.

Home Depot announced the pricing of a $2 billion senior note issuance. Half of the net proceeds will be used to refinance $1 billion of senior notes that need to be repaid this month.

The other half will be used to buy back $1 billion of outstanding shares through an accelerated program with Barclays Capital, Home Depot said.

Analysts welcomed the news.

“We look very favorably upon the announcement from Home Depot,” said Oppenheimer analyst Brian Nagel. “Sales trends at [Home Depot] have stabilized and begun to improve over the past several quarters. The chain remains in the early stages of recovery. We interpret the company’s decision to further tweak its capital structure as a signal that management expects recent [sales] improvements to prove sustainable.”

Shares of Phillips-Van Heusen Corp.  rose 6.6% after the parent company of Tommy Hilfiger and Calvin Klein reported a better-than-expected fourth-quarter profit.

Late Monday, Phillips-Van Heusen said its quarterly profit rose to $52.2 million, or 72 cents a share, from $27 million, or 51 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. On an adjusted basis, the company would have earned 93 cents a share. On average, analysts surveyed by FactSet Research had forecast earnings of 82 cents a share.

The apparel company said it expects to report first-quarter earnings of 82 cents to 84 cents a share on revenue of $1.32 billion to $1.35 billion. Excluding items, Phillips-Van Heusen projected a profit of $1.14 to $1.16 a share for the period, but that forecast missed the average consensus estimate of $1.18 a share.

Separately, Amazon.com Inc.’s  shares jumped 2.7%.

The online retailer announced the launch of new services that allow people to buy, store and play their music and other digital content on a range of digital devices. Read more about Amazon’s storage plans.

Among decliners, Hot Topic Inc.  shares dropped 3.4% after it said late Monday that it will take a pretax charge of $15 million, or 21 cents a share, in the first quarter, partly as a result of discontinuing its ShockHound.com business and writing down unproductive inventory.

Excluding the charge, the specialty retailer expects a loss of 1 cent to 4 cents a share in the first quarter. Analysts surveyed by FactSet Research estimated, on average, a loss of 3 cents a share.

The music-inspired teen retailer also said that Chief Merchandising Officer Amy Kocourek has left the company. Chief Executive Lisa Harper, who took over that role last week after former CEO Betsy McLaughlin left, will assume direct oversight for Hot Topic merchandising.

Hot Topic also said it’s discontinuing its monthly sales reports, effective in the third quarter.

Shares of Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  inched up. The U.S. Supreme Court heard oral arguments Tuesday on whether a sex-discrimination lawsuit against the world’s biggest retailer can get class-action status. See story on Wal-Mart.

The S&P Retail Index   was up 1.2% to 511.65 even after consumer confidence fell sharply in March.

The home-improvement retailer’s $2 billion note offering and share repurchase plan lift market sentiment.      

Document MRKWC00020110329e73t002bd

Legal Review
Supreme Court hears Wal-Mart gender bias case; Decision will resound across wide swath of law; CLASS ACTION

by Tony Mauro and Marcia Coyle tmauro@alm.com      
989 words
29 March 2011
Miami Daily Business Review
MDBR
A3
Volume 85; Issue 200
English
Copyright 2011 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

Among their hundreds of pages of dueling arguments, the companies and organizations supporting or opposing Wal-Mart in its landmark U.S. Supreme Court challenge agree on one point: Whatever the justices say about class action certification will resound across a wide swath of law, not just employment discrimination.

Ruling in favor of the class of current and former female workers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce warns, "has the potential to dramatically increase the class action exposure of the chamber's members and all companies doing business in the United States."

But advocates on the other side say a ruling for Wal-Mart could effectively close the door on class action lawsuits as an efficient way to prosecute claims instead of hundreds or thousands of repetitive trials — especially, but not only, in civil rights cases.

"If Wal-Mart has its way, it will be impossible to bring its employees fundamental paycheck fairness," said Sarah Crawford of the National Partnership for Women and Families. Her brief cites Brown v. Board of Education as a prime example of class action litigation that must be preserved.

The 29 amicus curiae briefs in the largest job discrimination case in history — potentially involving 500,000 to 1.6 million women — have attracted a wide array of law firms and lawyers, from Supreme Court veterans Roy Englert Jr. of Robbins Russell Englert Orseck Untereiner & Sauber, Arnold & Porter's Lisa Blatt and Jeffrey Lamken of MoloLamken, to noted academics like Arthur Miller of New York University Law School and civil rights firms like Chicago's Miner Barnhill & Galland, which once counted Barack Obama as a junior associate.

Even though the underlying lawsuit tells the story of women who work for the nation's largest retailer, the briefs are mostly devoid of personal details. Instead, they focus on the federal rules of civil procedure that govern class action lawsuits.

IN SEARCH OF SETTLEMENT

At issue is whether plaintiffs can use Rule 23(b)(2), which specifically provides for injunctive and other nonmonetary relief, to seek money damages and whether the Dukes class certification met the requirements, including commonality of interest within the class. When it granted review last December, the court excluded from the case constitutional issues involving due process and the Seventh Amendment.

The giant retailer, represented by Theodore Boutrous Jr. of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher, argues the answer to both questions in the case is "no." It is supported by an array of mega-companies, such as General Electric, Intel, Microsoft and DuPont, as well as by such conservative-probusiness organizations as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Washington Legal Foundation and the Defense Research Institute.

The 15 amicus briefs supporting Wal-Mart tackle chunks of the retailer's main arguments, emphasizing for example that class certification in this case violated the Rules Enabling Act by modifying substantive rights under Title VII, the nation's major anti-job bias law. They also argue the district court and 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals erred by failing to conduct a Daubert analysis of the testimony of the plaintiffs' chief expert. More broadly, they assert the plaintiffs fail to meet class certification requirements of typical claims, adequate representation and common issues.

By using overall statistics and social science research, the Costco brief argues the Wal-Mart plaintiffs were able to "gloss over the absence of any widespread discrimination at the level where employment decisions actually occur" at individual stores. David Ross of Seyfarth Shaw wrote the brief.

The other side, led by Joseph Sellers of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll, counters all those points, arguing that apart from size, the Wal-Mart suit is a typical class action that meets all the requirements.

"There is nothing in Rule 23 that says size matters," said John Vail of the Center for Constitutional Litigation, which filed a brief for the plaintiffs.

The plaintiff side also reject Wal-Mart's argument that its employment decision-making is so decentralized that the class does not meet requirements of typicality and common issues. That decentralization, the plaintiff amici insist, is itself a companywide policy that encourages bias and can be attacked through class actions.

One of the plaintiff amici also targets a theme that runs through several of the Wal-Mart briefs: that class actions like this one are intended mainly to force employers into "blackmail settlements" to avoid ruinous class action liability. A group of law and economics professors, citing empirical studies, assert civil rights class actions are rarely filed or certified, and the notion of "blackmail settlements" is a myth. The brief was authored by Robert Libman of Miner Barnhill & Galland, Obama's old firm.

AMONG THE MISSING

Missing from the lineup on either side is the solicitor general of the United States.

Arnold & Porter's Blatt, formerly an assistant to the solicitor general, noted in an amicus brief on behalf of the Retail Litigation Center supporting Wal-Mart, that the federal government has made some of the same arguments as Wal-Mart when it has opposed class certification as a defendant in other discrimination lawsuits.

But in an interview, Blatt said the government does not file as amicus in class action cases because of the tension inherent in its dual roles as enforcer of antidiscrimination laws and as the country's largest employer to whom all those laws apply.

"The government clearly has an interest in the issue presented in Wal-Mart on the certification question, but it also has an interest in enforcement of Title VII," she said.

Tony Mauro is U.S. Supreme Court correspondent for ALM, parent of the Daily Business Review. Marcia Coyle reports for the National Law Journal, an ALM affiliate of the Daily Business Review.      

Document MDBR000020110329e73t00008



BUSINESS-NEWS-SCHEDULE AT 2:30 P.M. EDT

1,290 words
29 March 2011
01:59 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited    

REUTERS BUSINESS SCHEDULE, March 29, 2011

Receive this sked by email: www.reuters.com/skeds -------------------------------------------------------------- Americas - Jonathan Oatis, Steve Orlofsky +1 646 223-6301 Europe - Lin Noueihed +44 20 7542 2171 Asia - Mathew Veedon, Deepak Kannan +65 6870-3827 -------------------------------------------------------------- TOP STORIES

Wal-Mart opposes sex-bias case at U.S. top court


 WASHINGTON - Several U.S. Supreme Court justices sharply   
question whether women employed by Wal-Mart Stores Inc can     
proceed with the largest class-action sex-discrimination       
lawsuit in history (WALMART-LAWSUIT/ (UPDATE 1), moved, by     


James Vicini, 750 words) + See also: - WALMART-LAWSUIT/ (SCENARIOS), moved, 750 words - WALMART-LAWSUIT/ (FACTBOX), moved, 360 words - WALMART-LAWSUIT/ (TIMELINE), moved, 300 words

Fed may tighten before global risks fixed -Bullard

PRAGUE - St. Louis Federal Reserve chief James Bullard urges the U.S. central bank to begin reversing its campaign of monetary easing, saying it could trim its $600 billion bond-buying program by $100 billion (FED-BULLARD/ (UPDATE 4), moved, by Jan Lopatka and Michael Winfrey, 880 words) + See also: - FED-BULLARD/ (HIGHLIGHTS), moved, 700 words)

Japan mulls Tokyo Electric nationalisation; shares tank

TOKYO - Japan may nationalize Asia's largest utility, Tokyo Electric Power, as it struggles with the financial costs of the country's worst nuclear disaster, a move that would please bondholders but hurt shareholders. (TEPCO/NATIONALISATION (UPDATE 5), moved, by Mariko Katsumura, 950 words) + See also: - JAPAN/ (WRAPUP 9), moved, pix, tv, graphic, by Yoko Nishikawa, 750 words - JAPAN-QUAKE/MITSUI (UPDATE 1), moved, by Chikako Mogi and Randy Fabi, 550 words - JAPAN/KAN (UPDATE 4), moved, by Leika Kihara, 700 words - JAPAN/COMPONENTS (WRAPUP 1), moved, by Tarmo Virki, 650 words)

U.S. bank regulator endorse risk-retention rule

WASHINGTON - U.S. lenders would have to offer mortgages with at least a 20 percent down payment if they want to repackage the loans to sell to other investors without keeping some of the risk on their books, under a proposal endorsed by regulators (FINANCIAL-REGULATION/FDIC (UPDATE 3), moved, by Dave Clarke, 700 words) SPECIAL REPORT

How Japan lost calculated nuclear risk

TOKYO - Over the past two weeks, Japanese government officials and Tokyo Electric Power executives have repeatedly described the deadly combination of the most powerful quake in Japan's 1751741300 538968065 4,000 words) ECONOMY

US consumer morale ebbs, home prices near 2009 lows

WASHINGTON - U.S. consumers turned gloomy in March as rising energy prices ignited fears of inflation, which could dent consumption and economic growth ( USA-ECONOMY/ (WRAPUP 2), moved, by Lucia Mutikani, 650 words) + See also: - USA-ECONOMY/HOMES-INDEX (UPDATE 1), moved, 350 words

German inflation steady at 2.1 pct yr/yr in March

BERLIN - German annual inflation held steady at 2.1 percent in March despite falls in costs for fresh food, communications and package vacations, data from the federal statistics office shows. (GERMANY/INFLATION (UPDATE 2), moved, by Brian Rohan, 550 2003792484 + See also: - GERMANY-GFK, moved, by Brian Rohan, 400 words - GERMANY-TAXES/SCHAEUBLE, moved, 200 words

UK GDP less bad at end-2010 than forecast, Q1 key

LONDON - Britain's economy suffered its sharpest contraction since mid-2009 last year, despite shrinking slightly less than previously estimated, according to figures that underline the uncertain nature of its recovery (BRITAIN-ECONOMY/ (UPDATE 2), moved, by David Milliken and Keith Weir, 800 words) MARKETS

Dollar up on Fed comments; US stocks edge higher

NEW YORK - The U.S. dollar rises on speculation the Federal Reserve might curtail a program aimed at keeping interest rates low, while U.S. stocks rise and Treasuries prices fall 676151634 + See also: - MARKETS-STOCKS (UPDATE 6), moved, by Chuck Mikoljczak 550 words - MARKETS-FOREX (UPDATE 7), expect by noon, by Julie Haviv, 740 words - MARKETS-PRECIOUS (UPDATE 5), moved, by Jan Harvey, 600 words - MARKETS-METALS (UPDATE 6), moved, by Sylvia Antonioli and Melanie Burton,, 800 words

Standard & Poor's downgrades Greece, Portugal

LISBON/ATHENS - Standard & Poor's downgrades Greece and Portugal, citing risks that the countries' debts to a new European bailout fund would be repaid before bond investors, sending their 543321970 moved, by Andrei Khalip and Ingrid Melander, 900 words) + See also: - (IRELAND-BANKS/ (UPDATE 1), expect by 1200, by Carmel Crimmins, 600 words) OIL

Saudi Arabia scrambles to maintain spare oil capacity

NEW YORK/ABU DHABI - Saudi Arabia's plan to boost the number of oil rigs at its disposal by 28 percent suggest the kingdom is struggling to maintain the 12.5 million barrels a day of 1869968496 moved, by Joshua Schneyer and Amena Bakr, 800 words) COMPANIES

Amazon faces backlash over 'music locker' service

NEW YORK - A new Amazon.com Inc service that lets customers store songs and play them on a variety of phones and computers is facing a backlash from the music industry that could ignite a legal battle (AMAZON/ (UPDATE 4), moved, by Phil Wahba, 700 words)

U.S. homebuilder Lennar's revenue, orders fall

NEW YORK - Lennar Corp , the third-largest U.S. homebuilder, posts a drop in quarterly orders and revenue, signaling continued weakness in the housing market (LENNAR/ (UPDATE 4), moved, by 541615468 + See also: - MCCORMICK/ (UPDATE 3), moved, 360 words

BP shares hit by manslaughter report, downgrade

LONDON - Shares of oil major BP fall after a media report that the company's managers may face manslaughter charges following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and an analyst downgrade 675434541 - BP-EXPLOSION (UPDATE 2), moved, by Jessica Donati, 200 words

GE continues energy M&A spate with $3.2 billion deal

BOSTON - General Electric Co reaches a $3.2 billion agreement to acquire a French maker of automation systems used in the oil and gas sector, marking the latest in a series of deals in the 543518309

Rio lowers threshold for Riversdale bid

MELBOURNE/SYDNEY - Global miner Rio Tinto says it will go ahead with its A$3.9 billion ($4 billion) takeover offer for Riversdale Mining even if it ends up with a minority stake in the 1299151457

Banco Base to ask Spain for 2.8 billion euros

MADRID - Spanish savings bank Banco Base will ask the state for funds amounting to double the capital shortfall estimated by the central bank in a sign lenders are seeking to shore up capital for more asset writedowns. (BANCOBASE/ (UPDATE 3), expect by 540095280

BATS to list public shares, challenging NYSE, Nasdaq

NEW YORK - BATS Global Markets plans to list U.S. public stocks by year end, opening the door for companies to float shares somewhere other than the Big Board or Nasdaq for the first time in years (EXCHANGES/BATS-LISTINGS (EXCLUSIVE), moved, by Jonathan Spicer, 800 words) ANALYSIS

J&J recall ills may give investors healthy profit

NEW YORK - Johnson & Johnson's massive recalls of Tylenol and other brands have shaved 8 percent off its share price over 15 months -- creating a buying opportunity for investors who 1650814057

U.S. drops to third in clean-energy investment - report

WASHINGTON- The United States fell one spot to third place, behind China and Germany, in clean-energy investment last year as the lack of a national energy policy hurt purchases in wind and solar power and other technologies, a report says 676480334

Rooftops to revive Spain's flagging solar industry

MADRID - Solar panels on the rooftops of Spain are likely to pay for themselves within five years without needing subsidies and should revive an industry in the doldrums after the country became the world's second-largest producer (SOLAR-SPAIN/ (ANALYSIS), moved, pix, by Martin Roberts, 950 words)

BUSINESS-NEWS-SCHEDULE AT 2:30 P.M. EDT    

Document LBA0000020110329e73t0013j



BUSINESS-NEWS-SCHEDULE AT 10:30 A.M. EST

1,533 words
29 March 2011
09:36 AM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited    

REUTERS BUSINESS SCHEDULE, March 29, 2011

Receive this sked by email: www.reuters.com/skeds -------------------------------------------------------------- Americas - Jonathan Oatis +1 646 223-6301 Europe - Lin Noueihed +44 20 7542 2171 Asia - Mathew Veedon, Deepak Kannan +65 6870-3827 -------------------------------------------------------------- TOP STORIES

Wal-Mart opposes sex-bias case at U.S. top court

WASHINGTON - Wal-Mart Stores Inc asks the U.S. Supreme Court to halt the largest class-action sex discrimination lawsuit in history by female employees who seek billions of dollars (WALMART-LAWSUIT/ (UPDATE 1), expect by noon, by James Vicini, 600 words)

See also: - WALMART-LAWSUIT/ (SCENARIOS), moved, 750 words - WALMART-LAWSUIT/ (FACTBOX), moved, 360 words - WALMART-LAWSUIT/ (TIMELINE), moved, 300 words

Fed may tighten before global risks fixed -Bullard

PRAGUE - St. Louis Federal Reserve chief James Bullard urges the U.S. central bank to begin reversing its campaign of monetary easing, saying it could trim its $600 billion bond-buying programme by $100 billion (FED-BULLARD/ (UPDATE 4), moved, by Jan Lopatka and Michael Winfrey, 880 words)

See also: - FED-BULLARD/ (HIGHLIGHTS), moved, 700 words)

BP shares hit by manslaughter report, downgrade

LONDON - Shares in oil major BP fall more than 2 percent after a media report that the company's managers may face manslaughter charges following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and an analyst downgrade (BP-SHARES/ (UPDATE 1), moved, by Tom Bergin and Dominic Lau, 350 words)

See also: - BP-EXPLOSION (UPDATE 2), moved, by Jessica Donati, 200 words

Japan mulls Tokyo Electric nationalisation; shares tank

TOKYO - Japan may nationalize Asia's largest utility, Tokyo Electric Power, as it struggles with the financial costs of the country's worst nuclear disaster, a move that would please bondholders but hurt shareholders. (TEPCO/NATIONALISATION (UPDATE 5), moved, by Mariko Katsumura, 950 words) + See also: - JAPAN/ (WRAPUP 10), moved, pix, tv, graphic, by Yoko Nishikawa, 750 words

How Japan lost calculated nuclear risk

TOKYO - Over the past two weeks, Japanese government officials and Tokyo Electric Power executives have repeatedly described the deadly combination of the most powerful quake in Japan's history and the massive tsunami that followed as "soteigai," or beyond expectations (JAPA-NUCLEAR/RISKS (SPECIAL REPORT), moved, pix, graphics, by Kevin Krolicki, Scott DiSavino and Taro Fuse, 2,000 words) ECONOMY

US house prices fall in January, consumer confidence down

WASHINGTON - U.S. house prices fell in January and are now near the lows seen in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. Meanwhile, consumer confidence fell in March as rising food and energy prices, along with the Japan crisis and the war in Libya, worried Americans (USA-ECONOMY/ (WRAPUP 1), expect by 11 a.m. by Corbett Daly, 500 words)

See also: - USA-ECONOMY/HOMES-INDEX (UPDATE 1), moved, 350 words MARKETS

Italian banks hit Europe stocks, euro flat

NEW YORK - European banking shares help lead world stocks after an Italian bank announced a capital increase, while the dollar rises on comments by a Federal Reserve official and the yen hits post-intervention lows (MARKETS-GLOBAL (WRAPUP 6), expect by noon, by Barani Krishnan, 860 words)

See also: - MARKETS-STOCKS (UPDATE 4), expect by noon, by Ryan Vlastelica, 550 words - MARKETS-FOREX (UPDATE 7), expect by noon, by Julie Haviv, 740 words - MARKETS-PRECIOUS (UPDATE 4), moved, by Jan Harvey, 600 words - MARKETS-METALS (UPDATE 5), moved, by Sylvia Antonioli, 600 words GLOBAL ECONOMY

State may take stake in Irish Life & Permanent-source

DUBLIN - Ireland's government may take a stake in bancassurer Irish Life & Permanent after crunch stress tests this week trigger a final overhaul of the country's wrecked lenders (IRELAND-BANKS/ (UPDATE 1), expect by 1200, by Carmel Crimmins, 600 words)

German inflation steady at 2.1 pct yr/yr in March

BERLIN - German annual inflation held steady at 2.1 percent in March despite falls in costs for fresh food, communications and package vacations, data from the federal statistics office shows. (GERMANY/INFLATION (UPDATE 1), moved, by Brian Rohan, 500 words) + See also:

UK GDP less bad at end-2010 than forecast, Q1 key

LONDON - Britain's economy suffered its sharpest contraction since mid-2009 last year, despite shrinking slightly less than previously estimated, according to figures that underline the uncertain nature of its recovery (BRITAIN-ECONOMY/ (UPDATE 2), moved, by David Milliken and Keith Weir, 800 words)

U.S. bank regulator set to endorse risk-retention rule

WASHINGTON - U.S. lenders would have to offer mortgages with at least a 20 percent down payment if they want to repackage the loan to sell to other investors without keeping some of the risk on their books, according to a proposal regulators are considering on Tuesday (FINANCIAL-REGULATION/FDIC (UPDATE 1), movedy, by Dave Clarke, 400 words) OIL

Saudi scrambles to maintain spare oil capacity

NEW YORK/ABU DHABI - Saudi Arabia's plan to boost the number of oil rigs at its disposal by 28 percent suggest the kingdom is struggling to maintain the 12.5 million barrels a day of output capacity it has long said is in place (OIL-SAUDI/ (UPDATE 4), moved, by Joshua Schneyer and Amena Bakr, 500 words) COMPANIES

Amazon beats rivals to 'music locker' service

NEW YORK - Amazon.com Inc has beaten rivals Apple Inc and Google Inc by introducing an online "music locker" service that lets customers play songs they already own on many smartphones and computers (AMAZON/ (UPDATE 3), moved, by Phil Wahba, 510 words)

U.S. homebuilder Lennar's revenue, orders fall

NEW YORK - Lennar Corp , the third-largest U.S. homebuilder, posts a drop in quarterly orders and revenue, signaling continued weakness in the housing market (LENNAR/ (UPDATE 3), moved, by Helen Chernikoff, 480 words)

See also: - MCCORMICK/ (UPDATE 3), moved, 360 words

GE continues energy M&A spate with $3.2 billion deal

BOSTON - General Electric Co reaches a $3.2 billion agreement to acquire a French maker of automation systems used in the oil and gas sector, marking the latest in a series of deals in the energy industry (GE/ (UPDATE 4), expect by noon, by Scott Malone, 600 words)

Osram to spark lighting M&A after Siemens spin-off

FRANKFURT/AMSTERDAM - Lighting company Osram will pursue takeovers and alliances once it is spun out of German conglomerate Siemens in an initial public offering (IPO) late this year (SIEMENS-OSRAM/ (UPDATE 3), moved, by Edward Taylor and Roberta B. Cowan, 600 words) COMPANIES

GLG helps hedge fund Man Group win back clients

LONDON - Man Group, the world's biggest listed hedge fund manager, begins winning back clients to its funds, as last year's acquisition of rival GLG helps it break a two-year streak of losing investors (MANGROUP/ (UPDATE 4), moved, by Laurence Fletcher, 800 words)

Rio drops threshold for Riversdale bid; in talks with CSN

MELBOURNE/SYDNEY - Global miner Rio Tinto says it will go ahead with its A$3.9 billion ($4 billion) takeover offer for Riversdale Mining even if it ends up with a minority stake in the Mozambique-focused coal miner.(RIVERSDALE-RIO/ (UPDATE 4), moved, by Sonali Paul and Michael Smith, 650 words)

Banco Base to ask Spain for 2.8 billion euros

MADRID - Spanish savings bank Banco Base will ask the state for funds amounting to double the capital shortfall estimated by the central bank in a sign lenders are seeking to shore up capital for more asset writedowns. (BANCOBASE/ (UPDATE 3), expect by 1300, by Sonya Dowsett, 500 words)

BATS to list public shares, challenging NYSE, Nasdaq

NEW YORK - BATS Global Markets plans to list U.S. public stocks by year end, opening the door for companies to float shares somewhere other than the Big Board or Nasdaq for the first time in years (EXCHANGES/BATS-LISTINGS (EXCLUSIVE), moved, by Jonathan Spicer, 800 words) TRADE

U.S questions value of early Doha trade text

GENEVA - Divided global trade negotiators risk moving further apart if a revised text on a global deal is pushed through by Easter as planned, the United States tells World Trade Organisation (WTO) delegates (TRADE/DOHA (UPDATE 1), moved, by Andrew Callus, 600 words) ANALYSIS

Oil majors, miners divided on US corruption rules

JOHANNESBURG - Oil and mining companies are divided in their views toward looming U.S. anti-corruption reporting requirements that will force them to disclose payments to foreign governments (RESOURCES-SEC/TRANSPARENCY (ANALYSIS), moved, by Ed Stoddard, 900 words)

U.S. drops to third in clean-energy investment - report

WASHINGTON- The United States fell one spot to third place in clean-energy investment last year as the lack of a national energy policy hurt purchases in wind and solar power and other technologies, a report says (RENEWABLES-REPORT/PEW, moved, by Timothy Gardner, 490 words)

Rooftops to revive Spain's flagging solar industry

MADRID - Solar panels on the rooftops of Spain are likely to pay for themselves within five years without needing subsidies and should revive an industry in the doldrums after the country became the world's second-largest producer (SOLAR-SPAIN/ (ANALYSIS), moved, pix, by Martin Roberts, 950 words)

BUSINESS-NEWS-SCHEDULE AT 10:30 A.M. EST    

Document LBA0000020110329e73t000u5



Reuters World News Highlights at 1000 GMT, Mar 29

521 words
29 March 2011
05:00 AM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2011 Reuters Limited      

TOP STORIES

-----------

TRIPOLI/LONDON - World powers meet on Tuesday to try to lay the groundwork for a Libya without Muammar Gaddafi after President Barack Obama said U.S. forces would not get bogged down trying to topple the Libyan leader.

- - - -

TOKYO - Plutonium found in soil at the Fukushima nuclear complex heightened alarm on Tuesday over Japan's battle to contain the world's worst atomic crisis in 25 years, as pressure mounted on the prime minister to widen an evacuation zone around the plant.

- - - -

DAMASCUS - Syrian forces fired into the air on Monday to disperse a pro-democracy protest in the southern flashpoint city of Deraa, where reformists want to overthrow the 41-year rule of the Assad family.

- - - -

SANAA - Talks in Yemen to broker a transition from President Ali Abdullah Saleh to his opponents have stalled in a public game of brinkmanship, but sources close to the talks said on Monday a deal was still within reach.

- - - -

WASHINGTON - Wal-Mart Stores Inc will argue on Tuesday that the U.S. Supreme Court should halt the largest class-action sex-discrimination lawsuit in history by female employees who seek billions of dollars.

- - - -

ABIDJAN - Forces loyal to Ivory Coast presidential claimant Alassane Ouattara seized two towns in the heart of the western cocoa belt overnight, in an offensive that may soon enable them to control a major port.

- - - -

BEIJING - A lack of cohesion on global monetary reform will be on display this week when the Group of 20 wealthy and developing economies meets in China for a seminar, an event that was supposed to have been a starting point for Sino-French efforts to design a new global currency order.

- - - -

NEW DELHI - Pakistan will allow Indian investigators to travel to Pakistan to probe the 2008 Mumbai attacks, a joint statement said on Tuesday after talks between the top civil servants in charge of security issues from the two countries.

- - - -

TORONTO - Canada's federal election could add a fresh element of uncertainty to the London Stock Exchange's proposed C$3 billion ($3.1 billion) takeover of TMX Group , a deal that was already seen as far from a sure thing.

- - - -

NEW DELHI - Indian police arrested on Tuesday two more executives in a multi-billion dollar telecoms corruption case as they prepared to make the first formal charges in a scandal that has embroiled the government and business magnates.

- - - -

LIMA - Peru's presidential front-runner Ollanta Humala said on Monday he would respect free-trade agreements and the central bank's independence as he tries to persuade voters he is no longer a left-wing hardliner.

- - - -

WASHINGTON - President Barack Obama's Democrats on Monday offered to cut another $20 billion from the U.S. budget in an attempt to reach a deal with congressional Republicans that would avert a government shutdown.

- - - -

BERLIN - German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Monday it would take her Christian Democrats a long time to overcome the pain of an election defeat in their conservative heartland where the Greens won on fears about nuclear power.

WORLD-HIGHLIGHTS      

Document LBA0000020110329e73t000gx



Supreme Court To Hear Appeal On Gender Pay Suit

Renee Montagne 
76 words
28 March 2011
NPR: Morning Edition
MGED
English
Copyright 2011 NPR. All rights reserved.    Visit our website terms of use and permissions page at www.npr.org for further information.    NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by a contractor for NPR, and accuracy and availability may vary.    This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future.    Please be aware that the authoritative record of NPR's programming is the audio. 

RENEE MONTAGNE: NPR's business news starts with gender discrimination and Wal-Mart.

(SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC)

MONTAGNE: The case was brought by women who accuse Wal-Mart of blocking their promotions and paying them less than their male counterparts. If it proceeds, Wal-Mart might have to pay billions of dollars. This case could also affect how future discrimination suits are brought against large companies.

Document MGED000020110328e73s00008



News
High court takes up issue in bias suit vs. Wal-Mart Lawyers for female workers want litigation to proceed as class action.

By MARK SHERMAN • Associated Press      
1,021 words
28 March 2011
St. Louis Post-Dispatch
SLMO
Third Edition
A8
English
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.    All Rights Reserved.      

0

WASHINGTON - Christine Kwapnoski hasn't done too badly in nearly 25 years in the Wal-Mart family, making more than $60,000 a year in a job she enjoys most days.

But Kwapnoski says she faced obstacles at Wal-Mart-owned Sam's Club stores in both Missouri and California: men making more than women and getting promoted more quickly.

She never heard a supervisor tell a man, as she says one told her, to "doll up" or "blow the cobwebs off" her makeup.

Once she got over the fear that she might be fired, she joined what has turned into the largest job discrimination lawsuit ever.

Kwapnoski, 46, a single mother of two, is one of the named plaintiffs in a suit that will be argued at the Supreme Court on Tuesday. At stake is whether the suit can go forward as a class action that could involve 500,000 to 1.6 million women, according to varying estimates, and potentially could cost the world's largest retailer billions of dollars.

But the case's potential importance goes well beyond the Wal-Mart dispute, as evidenced by more than two dozen briefs filed by business interests on Wal-Mart's side, and civil rights, consumer and union groups on the other.

The question is crucial to the viability of discrimination claims, which become powerful vehicles to force change when they are presented together, instead of individually. Class actions increase pressure on businesses to settle suits because of the cost of defending them and the potential for large judgments.

Columbia University law professor John Coffee said that the high court could bring a virtual end to employment discrimination class actions filed under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, depending on how it decides the Wal-Mart case.

"Litigation brought by individuals under Title VII is just too costly," Coffee said. "It's either class action or nothing."

Illustrating the value of class actions, Brad Seligman, the California-based lawyer who conceived of and filed the suit 10 years ago, said the average salary for a woman at Wal-Mart was $13,000, about $1,100 less than the average for a man, when the case began. "That's hugely significant if you're making $13,000 a year, but not enough to hire a lawyer and bring a case."

The company has fought the suit every step of the way, Seligman said, because it is the "biggest litigation threat Wal-Mart has ever faced."

A trial judge and the federal appeals court in San Francisco, over a fierce dissent, said the suit could go forward.

But Wal-Mart wants the high court to stop the suit in its tracks. The company argues that it includes too many women with too many different positions in its 3,400 stores across the country. Wal-Mart says that its policies prohibit discrimination and that most management decisions are made at the store and regional levels, not at its headquarters, in Bentonville, Ark.

Theodore Boutrous, Wal-Mart's California-based lawyer, said there was no evidence that women were poorly treated at Wal-Mart. "The evidence is the contrary of that," Boutrous said.

The company is not conceding that any woman has faced discrimination but says that if any allegations are proven, they are isolated.

"People will make errors," said Gisel Ruiz, Wal-Mart's executive vice president for people, as the company calls its human resources unit. "People are people."

Ruiz paints a very different picture of the opportunities offered women at Wal-Mart. She joined the company straight from college in 1992. "In less than four years, I went from an assistant manager trainee to running my own store," she said. "I'm one of thousands of women who have had a positive experience at Wal-Mart."

Kwapnoski, who works at the Sam's Club in Concord, Calif., is one of two women who continue to work at Wal-Mart while playing a prominent role in the suit. The other is Betty Dukes, a greeter at the Walmart in Pittsburg, Calif.

"It's very hard for anyone to understand how difficult that is and what courage that is," Seligman said of Kwapnoski and Dukes. "They're Public Enemy No. 1 at Wal-Mart, and they are known for their involvement in this lawsuit. Nevertheless, they get and up and go to work every day."

Kwapnoski didn't want to discuss any issues she faced at work as a result of the suit.

She said she had seen some changes at Wal-Mart since the suit was filed in 2001. The company now posts all its openings electronically.

"It does give people a better idea of what's out there, but they still can be very easily passed over," she said. "But before, you didn't even know the position was open."

The suit, citing what are now dated figures from 2001, contends that women are grossly underrepresented among managers, holding just 14 percent of store manager positions compared with more than 80 percent of lower-ranking supervisory jobs that pay by the hour. Wal-Mart responds that women in its retail stores made up two-thirds of all employees and two-thirds of all managers in 2001.

Kwapnoski said that she and many women were promoted into management just after the suit was filed, although she has had only a couple of pay increases in the nine years since. She is the assistant manager in her store's groceries and produce sections.

Now, she said, promotions are back to the way they were before, favoring men over women.

She said she was hoping the long-running court fight would force Wal-Mart to recognize that, stories such as Ruiz's aside, women are not valued as much as men are and that her bosses will begin to "make sure that good men and good women are being promoted, not just men."

Document SLMO000020110328e73s00062



National Desk; SECTA
Supreme Court to Weigh Sociology Issue in Wal-Mart Discrimination  Case

By ADAM LIPTAK      
1,250 words
28 March 2011
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
17
English
Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company.    All Rights Reserved.      

WASHINGTON -- When the Supreme Court considers on Tuesday whether hundreds of thousands of women can band together in an employment discrimination suit against Wal-Mart, the argument may hinge on the validity of the hotly disputed conclusions of a Chicago sociologist.

Plaintiffs in the class-action suit, who claim that Wal-Mart owes billions of dollars to as many as 1.5 million women who they say were unfairly treated on pay and promotions, enlisted the support of William T. Bielby, an academic specializing in ''social framework analysis.''

A central question in the case is whether he should have been allowed, in preliminary proceedings, to go beyond describing general research about gender stereotypes in the workplace to draw specific conclusions about what he called flaws in Wal-Mart's personnel policies.

''Bielby made a conclusion that he had no basis to make,'' said Laurens Walker, one of two University of Virginia professors who coined the term for the analysis almost 25 years ago. ''He hasn't done the research.''

But a brief supporting the plaintiffs from the American Sociological Association said that Professor Bielby's work explaining how Wal-Mart's policies may have led to discrimination ''is well within our discipline's accepted methods.''

The sharp arguments are a testament to the central role that social framework analysis has come to play in scores of major employment discrimination cases. Describing what was at stake in such cases, a 2009 article in The Fordham Law Review defending Professor Bielby said the debate was ''about the existence of unconscious or implicit bias, the continued seriousness of discrimination as a force in the modern workplace and the appropriate reach of legal remedies to challenge discrimination.''

The Supreme Court is not considering whether Wal-Mart, the country's largest retailer and biggest private employer, in fact discriminated against women who worked there. For now, the question before the justices in the case, Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes, No. 10-277, is only whether hundreds of thousands of female workers have enough in common to join together in a single suit.

To make that case, the plaintiffs submitted 120 sworn statements describing what they said was anecdotal evidence of discrimination. They also offered statistics showing what they said were suspicious gaps in pay and promotion between men and women.

Wal-Mart disputes the plaintiffs' evidence as unrepresentative and unreliable. But even if all of it were established fact, anecdotes and statistics would not be enough. Supreme Court precedent also requires lawyers pursuing a class action to identify the common policy that they say led to unlawful discrimination.

For that, the lawyers for the plaintiffs in the Wal-Mart case turned to Professor Bielby, who teaches at the University of Illinois at Chicago and has testified in scores of similar cases.

Social framework analysis gives courts general information -- a framework -- drawn from social science. Testimony about the reliability of eyewitness identification can, for instance, serve a valuable role in cases in which prosecutors seek to rely on such evidence.

Professor Bielby, who declined a request for an interview, told the trial court that he had collected general ''scientific evidence about gender bias, stereotypes and the structure and dynamics of gender inequality in organizations.'' He said he also reviewed extensive litigation materials gathered by the lawyers in the case.

He concluded that two aspects of Wal-Mart's corporate culture might be to blame for pay and other disparities. One was a centralized personnel policy. The other was allowing subjective decisions by managers in the field. Together, he said, those factors allowed stereotypes to infect personnel choices, making ''decisions about compensation and promotion vulnerable to gender bias.''

The methodology he used, Professor Bielby explained, was social framework analysis. He cited the seminal work of the two law professors at the University of Virginia, Professors Walker and John Monahan, in the first of 123 footnotes in his 41-page sworn declaration in the case.

But Professors Walker and Monahan contend in their academic writing that Professor Bielby has misused social framework analysis. It is fine, they say, to give courts general information about social science research. But it is improper, they continue, to draw conclusions about the matter in dispute without conducting first-hand research.

''This is a case about a missing link,'' Professor Walker said of the Wal-Mart litigation. ''You can make the link, if you do the research. But what's holding this class together is -- nothing.''

That position, also set out in a 2008 article in The Virginia Law Review by Professors Walker, Monahan and Gregory Mitchell, has prompted sharp responses.

The Fordham article, by Professors Melissa Hart and Paul M. Secunda, said that Professors Walker and Monahan ''seem to suggest that their coining of this phrase gives them a unique right to define the terms and content of expert testimony offered in employment discrimination cases.''

Professors Hart and Secunda added that the third author of the Virginia article, Professor Mitchell, is affiliated with a firm that has provided expert witness services to defendants in employment discrimination suits.

Professor Mitchell said in an e-mail that he was ''against bad science whether offered by plaintiffs or defendants'' and that his firm's work ''has been for defendants in employment cases because 'social framework analysis' has become so popular among the experts used by plaintiffs.''

He added that if his academic critique of social framework analysis was accepted by the Supreme Court, ''then the likelihood of me being asked to testify against bad social science experts will go down.''

''And I would welcome that development,'' he said.

For their parts, Professor Walker said that he and Professor Monahan ''don't have a dog in this hunt,'' adding that ''we're working purely on keeping the methodology proper.''

Laura Beth Nielsen, a sociologist and lawyer who worked on the American Sociological Association's brief defending Professor Bielby, said ''it is tremendously important that jurors and judges understand what we know about the world.'' But, she added, ''you have to be cautious.''

In the Virginia Law Review article, Professor Walker and his colleagues said Professor Bielby had been far from cautious. In particular, they said, ''Dr. Bielby's report provides no verifiable method for measuring or testing any of the variables that were crucial to his conclusions.''

At his deposition in 2003, Professor Bielby was asked ''how regularly stereotypes play a meaningful role in employment decisions at Wal-Mart.''

''I can't put a number on it,'' he replied.

Asked whether he could give any guidance in ''a range between, you know, .5 percent of the employment decisions and 99.5 percent,'' he said no.

Should the Supreme Court allow social framework evidence like that presented by Professor Bielby, many large employers could be vulnerable to class-action claims, Professor Walker said. ''If this is enough,'' Professor Walker said of Professor Bielby's declaration, ''this opinion is perfectly transportable.''

In a brief supporting Wal-Mart, lawyers for Costco agreed. Certifying a class in the Wal-Mart case, they said, would mean that ''employers with decentralized business models will have few avenues available to escape a Bielby-enabled certification order, other than resorting to surreptitious quotas.''

PHOTO: An analysis from Prof. William T. Bielby, a sociologist, is at the heart of a case that the Supreme Court will hear on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROXANA VASQUEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Document NYTF000020110328e73s00028

Newscast: Class action suit filed against Walmart by female employees

450 words
28 March 2011
NBC News: Nightly News
NTLN
English
(c) Copyright 2011, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.        

BRIAN WILLIAMS, anchor:

Back now with a legal fight that could pit the world's largest retailer, Walmart, against more than a million women. It has the potential to become the biggest sex discrimination case in American history. The big question before the Supreme Court tomorrow, could this case be too big? The story from our justice correspondent Pete Williams.

PETE WILLIAMS reporting:

Christine Kwapnowski says Walmart has passed over women like her for decades, giving men bigger raises and better promotions.

Ms. CHRISTINE KWAPNOWSKI: Once I had my fill of it, I finally just said enough's enough.

P. WILLIAMS: Typical, she says, was a comment made by her store manager while she was working on the loading dock.

Ms. KWAPNOWSKI: I had gone in and asked, you know, `What is it I need to do to get promoted?' And I was told that I needed to blow the cobwebs off my makeup and to doll up.

P. WILLIAMS: She and other current and former Walmart employees filed a class action, one that could end up joining more than one-and-a-half million women in a single lawsuit against Walmart. The company says that's so big the women don't have enough in common for a fair trial. And Walmart says it has a strict nondiscrimination policy.

Ms. GISEL RUIZ (Walmart Executive): They don't represent my own experience. I've had a lot of positive experiences with Walmart, like many other countless women in the organization.

P. WILLIAMS: The Supreme Court will not be deciding if Walmartdiscriminated. The question is whether a lawsuit this big should be allowed to go to trial, representing so many women working in different kinds of Walmart jobs.

Women's groups say without the ability to band together in class actions and seek back pay, discrimination cases would be much harder to bring.

Ms. MARCIA GREENBERGER (National Women's Law Center): Depending on how the court rules, it could come down to the basic question of whether you have class actions in the future at all.

P. WILLIAMS: But several of the nation's biggest employers, including GE, part owner of NBC Universal, say allowing such a huge case against Walmart to proceed would invite abusive lawsuits.

Ms. LISA BLATT (Lawyer for Retailers): It would be open season for employment discrimination cases against large employers with nationwide offices.

P. WILLIAMS: Both sides agree the stakes are high, not just for Walmart, but for a legal tool women claim is essential, one that big employers say makes it hard to fairly defend themselves. Pete Williams, NBC News, at the Supreme Court.

Document NTLN000020110329e73s00008

Top court to take up huge sex bias claim vs. Wal-Mart

336 words
28 March 2011
The Capital (Annapolis)
CPGN
A.3
English
Copyright (c) 2011 The Capital (Annapolis). Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights Reserved.      

WASHINGTON, D.C. (AP) - Christine Kwapnoski hasn't done too badly in nearly 25 years in the Wal-Mart family, making more than $60,000 a year in a job she enjoys most days.

But Kwapnoski says she faced obstacles at Wal-Mart-owned Sam's Club stores in both Missouri and California: Men making more than women and getting promoted faster.

She never heard a supervisor tell a man, as she says one told her, to "doll up" or "blow the cobwebs off" her make-up.

Once she got over the fear that she might be fired, she joined what has turned into the largest job discrimination lawsuit ever.

The 46-year-old single mother of two is one of the named plaintiffs in a suit that will be argued at the Supreme Court tomorrow. At stake is whether the suit can go forward as a class action that could involve 500,000 to 1.6 million women, according to varying estimates, and potentially could cost the world's largest retailer billions of dollars.

But the case's potential importance goes well beyond the Wal- Mart dispute, as evidenced by more than two dozen briefs filed by business interests on Wal-Mart's side, and civil rights, consumer and union groups on the other.

The question is crucial to the viability of discrimination claims, which become powerful vehicles to force change when they are presented together, instead of individually. Class actions increase pressure on businesses to settle suits because of the cost of defending them and the potential for very large judgments.

Columbia University law professor John Coffee said that the high court could bring a virtual end to employment discrimination class actions filed under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, depending on how it decides the Wal-Mart case.

"Litigation brought by individuals under Title VII is just too costly," Coffee said. "It's either class action or nothing."

Document CPGN000020110328e73s0003v

News; Domestic
Women vs. Wal-Mart; Sheen`s Intern Search; Tween Bikini Controversy

Roseanne Barr, Jane Velez-Mitchell      
8,017 words
28 March 2011
CNN Headline News: The Joy Behar Show
CNNJBS
English
© 2011 Cable News Network LP, LLP, All rights reserved. Prepared by CQ Transcriptions, LLC      

ROSEANNE BARR, GUEST HOST: No, your eyes aren`t deceiving. And no, you`re not on the wrong channel. And obviously I`m not Joy Behar.

I`m actually an outspoken, occasionally loud-mouthed, brassy broad with a lot of strong opinions that sometimes rub people the wrong way. Hey, wait a second. Joy Behar`s stealing my act.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Coming up on THE JOY BEHAR SHOW, the one and only Roseanne Barr is sitting in for Joy. She`ll talk to a woman who`s suing retail giant Wal-Mart for discrimination. The Supreme Court will hear this landmark labor case tomorrow and we`ll tell you what it will mean for women in the work place.

Then HLN`s Jane Velez-Mitchell has an update on the Amanda Knox murder trial. Could stunning new testimony exonerate Knox?

Plus, Sheryl Crow talks about her battle with cancer and going from the studio to the kitchen with her new cook book. That and more starting right now.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BARR: Hello, everybody. I`m Roseanne Barr, sitting in, bitch-hitting for Joy Behar for a couple of nights. I`m very excited. We`ve got so much to cover. And I`m very interested in finding out both sides and figuring out for myself what any of this stuff means.

It`s a big week. This week, the Supreme Court will begin hearing arguments to see whether over one million women can come together and sue the nation`s largest retailer, Wal-Mart, for discrimination. Here with me now is the woman who started it all, Betty Duke.

Hi Betty.

BETTY DUKE, SUING WAL-MART: Hi Roseanne, how are you?

BARR: I`m good. You are the lead plaintiff in the case against Wal- Mart. And you`re joined by your attorney, Jocelyn Larkin. Hi Jocelyn.

JOCELYN LARKIN, ATTORNEY FOR BETTY DUKE: Hi.

BARR: Well, Betty lay it all out for. Why do you think Wal-Martdiscriminated against you?

DUKE: Well, we`ve come a long ways since we filed our lawsuit back in 2001. And we`ve been dealing with an ongoing national issue of racial discrimination -- excuse me, gender discrimination, with women in the workforce, workplace, in regards to promotion as well as salary. It just seems like it`s just embedded in the culture that has been an ongoing practice.

BARR: Now, you joined forces with six other women early on and when did you realize that there might be something big to your case?

DUKE: Well, when we first started from the advice from the legal counsel that we had, it did show a pattern. They were able to see that there was a pattern that was national and it involved all the stores across the country that women like myself was experiencing gender discrimination in promotion as well as salary. The facts were there.

BARR: Well, isn`t it true that like 67 percent of the workers are female and something like only 13 percent of them make it to manager?

DUKE: It`s more towards 80 percent of the workers are female and yes, the number that makes it to management is very low.

BARR: Wal-Mart says they`ve always forbidden discrimination. So let`s listen to Wal-Mart`s executive vice president.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

GISEL RUIS, EXECUTIVE VP, WAL-MART: The plaintiffs and the class members have very little in common and there really isn`t -- there isn`t a way that three individuals can barely represent the experiences of over 1.5 million other women by the way who worked for thousands of different stores with thousands of different managers in multiple states throughout the country.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BARR: Jocelyn, they`re kind of -- she`s kind of saying that it`s kind of an accident. Why did you decide to pursue a class action suit rather than dealing with it individually?

LARKIN: Well, there`s a couple of reasons. First of all, what we found is that the policies comes from the top and they apply to every store across the country. What we also saw was that the results were the same across the country. So in 41 regions across the country, women were paid less than men for the same work.

But the other thing, Roseanne, is that one woman can`t possibly take on the largest employer in America and expect to succeed. She needs to stand together with other women in order to change the practices that we claim have discriminated against them.

BARR: It`s kind of funny that a bunch of rich people can band together and form a corporation and that`s called "free enterprise"; but when workers do it, they call it "communism". Do you have anything to say about that? Isn`t that weird? Do you think that`s weird?

LARKIN: Well, I think that there should be an equal opportunity for women to stand together and bring their claims to court. The whole point is let`s just get this, these appeals of Wal-Mart`s over, so that we can go to a jury. We`ll put on our story. They`ll put on their story.

BARR: Right. And they decide for us tomorrow, right?

LARKIN: The Supreme Court will decide whether it`s a class action. They`ll hear the case tomorrow and they`ll render a decision probably in June.

BARR: Everybody`s saying it`s huge. It`s like the biggest thing that`s ever happened. I mean it has such huge weight for workers. Not just female, but all workers.

There could potentially be 1.5 million complaints in one lawsuit. How do we know that they all have merit, though?

LARKIN: Well, what`s important here Roseanne is that the first part of the case would be the issue of whether Wal-Mart in fact had a practice of allowing managers essentially to discriminate against women. At the second part of the trial, the court would then decide which of the women had actually been injured. So only the women who actually were paid less than the man at the next cash register, those women would get compensation.

But the point here is to change the practices at Wal-Mart and make it that all the women that work there now and in the future are able to get fair treatment.

BARR: Well, you know, they`re saying that you know, as it goes pretty regularly, that some of these women have been there for a long time, have been working there for a long time, have good records and they`re like hiring men off the streets for them to train. I mean that`s part of it, too, isn`t it?

LARKIN: Yes. Betty, you want to talk about that.

DUKE: Well, you know, Roseanne. I`ve been in my store for 16-plus years and in my ninth year, by then we had filed the discrimination case. And I was only making $8.15 an hour with nine years of service that also included being a front end customer service manager. But I do know that the record would also show that there were men that was hired after me that was making literally a reasonable amount more than me and they only had a few years in compared to my nine years.

BARR: Well, Betty, I just -- I wish you the best. I hope that you win. I mean, you know, I hope that you win and you know --

DUKE: Thank you.

BARR: I hope that it goes forward because, you know, I mean I`m just really tired of it. It`s been going on for way too long. And we`ll see what happens.

DUKE: Thank you so much, Roseanne.

BARR: Thank you, good luck.

LARKIN: Thank you.

BARR: We`ll be back in a minute with the latest on Charlie Sheen`s search for an intern.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Coming up a little later on THE JOY BEHAR SHOW, nine-time Grammy winner, Sheryl Crow drops by to talk about her cook book, "If It Makes You Healthy".

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ROSEANNE BARR: It`s round three in Charlie Sheen`s search for an intern. They got something like 80,000 people to apply and then they narrowed it down to 250. With me now to discuss this and other stories in the news are comedian, Kevin Meaney --

KEVIN MEANEY, COMEDIAN: Hello Roseanne. How are you?

BARR: Hi. I`m good how are you?

MEANEY: Good very good.

BARR: Good.

BARR: Jessica -- quiet -- Jessica Shaw, senior writer, "Entertainment Weekly". Hi Jessica.

JESSICA SHAW, SENIOR WRITER, "ENTERTAINMENT WEEKLY": Hello.

BARR: And Chef Rocco DiSpirito, a cookbook author of "Now Eat this Diet".

ROCCO DISPIRITO, AUTHOR, "NOW EAT THIS DIET": That`s right.

BARR: And you said you have healthy cheese. I don`t believe that.

DISPIRITO: I have healthy Mac and cheese. Even better.

(CROSS TALK)

BARR: Oh my God I`ve got to get into that book. So ok, what do you guys think about Charlie Sheen? First of all, I looked at it. You know, it says intern --

(CROSS TALK)

SHAW: It was fine.

BARR: No, but I thought it was going to be a bunch of coke whores and everything but I went there to YouTube and by God it`s intelligent people who know about what they`re talking about.

(CROSS TALK)

MEANEY: Oh yes.

BARR: It pushed me up.

MEANEY: Yes I -- I applied.

BARR: They know this social media stuff, they know about Twitter and Facebook.

MEANEY: Yes.

BARR: All these things old people don`t know anything about. It`s amazing.

MEANEY: Yes, I applied to you know, to as an intern, but I think I`m a little old. But I -- you know he`s a total genius.

BARR: He kind of is.

MEANEY: You know.

BARR: Yes.

MEANEY: I mean he sold out Radio City Music Hall.

BARR: Two nights.

MEANEY: For two nights. I mean, I want to go see that show. I mean, it`s going to be either brilliant or just like this train wreck.

SHAW: I just want to know, what is the career trajectory? Once you`re Charlie Sheen`s intern, what`s the next step? Do you work at the Playboy mansion? Like what -- what`s your goal?

BARR: No, it`s not like that. I`m telling you it`s like these guys and they`re like the Facebook connection to the social media with the Twitter. They`re all the Twittering kind of people that know how to reach an audience. They`re like direct -- direct marketing --

(CROSS TALK)

SHAW: They know how to talk like winning, winning.

BARR: As demographic starts -- like, what?

DISPIRITO: Those girls went to Wellesley -- can you imagine? You get to put "Goddess" on your resume. Imagine someone interviewing you. Hey, Wellesley, Peace Corps, goddess for Charlie Sheen. You`re hired. That`s incredible.

BARR: I`m going to hire one of these people, I swear.

DISPIRITO: Yes.

BARR: Because I need an intern, first of all I like interns because you don`t have to pay them.

DISPIRITO: Yes.

BARR: I got all these people in on me who know how to get Facebook or Twitter or any of that stuff. These guys know how connect things and make things happen. And one of the things they made happen, this new social media is you know of him selling out Radio City Music Hall.

DISPIRITO: And I hear the show is going to be amazing. I hear the show is going to be amazing. He`s being coached by James Franco. He`s being coached by James Franco so it`s a -- he`s going to do great.

MEANEY: I might streak across that stage, you know?

That would be fine. That would get to --

BARR: All right.

MEANEY: Don`t look at me like that.

DISPIRITO: Kevin, are you going to show them the same thing you showed me in the dressing room?

MEANEY: Yes.

DISPIRITO: Oh boy that would get some laughs for sure.

MEANEY: Thank you Rocco.

BARR: Now I`m really afraid. So that`s what you guys have to say about these brilliant interns --

(CROSS TALK)

SHAW: And just feels -- it feels a little just too much to me. It`s like enough Charlie Sheen. I know you guys think his show is going to be so brilliant but --

MEANEY: I didn`t say it was going to be brilliant. I think -- I think, it`s either going to be like this train wreck --

SHAW: Yes, I feel like it`s a train wreck. But I think there`s train wreck funny and train wreck good and then there`s train wreck bad. I think he has just crossed the line as train wreck bad.

(CROSS TALK)

BARR: I don`t know, I thought that at first. I thought that at first but the more I thought about it, it`s like, the guy is like bringing a lot of people together like other people aren`t. It`s kind of cool.

DISPIRITO: There is something like -- there is some kind of genius going on. What is it that he`s doing --

(CROSS TALK)

SHAW: Yes it`s cool there`s people that he`s bringing together --

(CROSS TALK)

BARR: He`s not going to play that role that they want to force on everybody.

DISPIRITO: Right.

BARR: He`s not going to play the good dad, the good citizen. He`s just like, "f" it and this might be the time for that.

(CROSS TALK)

MEANEY: He never played good dad or the good --

BARR: He`s not even trying.

MEANEY: No but he -- you know in the show, "Two and a Half Men," he was like you know, a nut. You know John Cryer was the good guy.

SHAW: Yes but who -- what are you going to learn? If you`re the intern, what are you going to learn? You personally want to be an intern as you can maybe learn from your employer.

(CROSS TALK)

MEANEY: I think you`re going to learn -- you`re going to learn what not to do. That`s what you`re going to learn.

DISPIRITO: Didn`t he play a womanizing alcoholic on the show?

MEANEY: Yes he`s a very good actor.

DISPIRITO: There`s nothing wrong with that, right?

BARR: But I just mean like, I think Charlie Sheen has like transcended that whole show. And now he`s like, you know a cause celebre. He`s got like the whole social -- he`s got like the whole social movement behind him now.

MEANEY: Yes.

SHAW: For now.

BARR: Of people who like, "f" it, we`re not going to play the role.

MEANEY: Maybe he`ll run for president.

BARR: It`s not going to be good, we`re not going to do what everybody wants us to do. You know we`re just going to go for it.

DISPIRITO: We`re in a country that rewards bad behavior. I mean, come on let`s -- let`s admit it right? Aren`t we?

BARR: That`s true.

DISPIRITO: Absolutely. So that we shouldn`t be surprised that Charlie`s being bad and getting attention for it. And he`s doing what we want, basically isn`t it?

BARR: I like that he`s like, forget it, I`m a big drug addict to the drug and I`m proud of it. It`s kind of cool after -- you know all of sudden --

(CROSS TALK)

MEANEY: Who doesn`t want to be bi-winning come on?

BARR: -- where people are like going to rehab, get my life back on track. He`s like, forget it, I`m going to drink more, take more drugs -- F U.

MEANEY: Yes Dr. Drew tried to help him. But he doesn`t you know, nobody -- nobody can help him. He`s got to help himself and he`s totally insane.

SHAW: You know what? Somebody needs to help Dr. Drew. Once again as an intern --

BARR: Moving on. We have to move on but that`s what they go (INAUDIBLE)

Remember last week -- here is a good one -- when George Lopez made a cruel joke referring Kirstie Alley to a pig? How rude was that?

DISPIRITO: Oh my God.

MEANEY: You know, I -- I didn`t see it live, but I did read about it in the paper, you know what was it the hooves are --

SHAW: Yes.

BARR: Yes.

MEANEY: What was the joke?

BARR: He -- he said something about the little pig --

MEANEY: He can really -- she could really move those hooves. And then I said, well, that`s not that bad, and then I realized that the hooves were pig hooves.

BARR: Yes.

MEANEY: So then -- then, if I -- I finally got it after you know, after I had a cup of coffee --

BARR: We might be at a time in our social history where like fat jokes about fat women are just not funny and passe. They`re so offensive. I like, was so mad.

(CROSSTALK)

SHAW: I kind of felt like, you know, it`s not even that I`m offended by the fat joke; I`m just offended by the joke. it`s just a lame joke, it`s an easy target. But I do have to say in his defense a lot of late night comics did that kind of joke. Conan O`Brien did and I just felt, why is he getting all of you know, the nation`s eye for this.

DISPIRITO: Everyone did do that joke and I -- I heard it, morning shows, late night shows.

(CROSS TALK)

SHAW: Right.

BARR: Do you think they might have writers; can they get interns that can write a joke? I mean all these stupid jokes in the world. I hate fat jokes, don`t you? I mean, don`t you --

(CROSS TALK)

MEANEY: I -- I don`t like fat jokes, no, I don`t. You know, so because I carry a little bit of weight. So I don`t you know, it`s -- it`s always, people are talking about, I go home, my mother goes, you look like you lost a little bit.

BARR: Yes.

MEANEY: You know I -- and I used to be so skinny and I was still fat, you know?

SHAW: Just go into therapy session?

DISPIRITO: I did find it ironic that -- yes here we go.

MEANEY: Thank you Rocco.

(CROSS TALK)

BARR: It`s so completely sexist to like make fun of fat women.

SHAW: Right.

BARR: You never hear a fat guy joke. And you never do. But they`re on "Time" magazine. All the big actors are all a bunch of fat guys and then the women were like they`re just telling jokes about being pigs. It makes me mad.

MEANEY: Yes. She`s mad.

SHAW: She`s had of much better comeback though, she took him down with his kidney, she was like, you can give your kidney back.

BARR: Well, his wife that gave him the kidney is fat, too.

MEANEY: Yes.

BARR: And he owes her a big apology.

SHAW: And he divorced her.

BARR: As soon as she divorced him I think you start hitting the soft.

Guys stay right there. More when we come back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BARR: I`m back with my panel.

Hey, you guys. Controversial retailer, Abercrombie and Fitch has come under fire yet again. This time, you know what they`re doing -- marketing a padded, push-up bikini for girls as young as 7-years old.

DISPIRITO: Oh, my God. That is just terrible.

BARR: Isn`t it?

MEANEY: Lamb of God, take away the sins.

SHAW: I want to know, are they doing the same for boys` bathing suits? Are they padding theirs as well?

MEANEY: How dare you? How do you think I got through life?

BARR: Now, isn`t that kind of sick Bill?

MEANEY: I`m going to get one for my daughter.

BARR: Are you?

MEANEY: She`s going to wear it to --

BARR: What`s your daughter`s name again?

MEANEY: JonBenet -- no, that`s not funny. I`m sorry. You know.

That Abercrombie and Fitch, I went in there once and I love that store because you`re out there and there`s like handsome fellows out there just luring you in. But then I went in and said, yes, what size would you want? I said, I want a 38 waist and they go, "We don`t make anything that big."

I`m out of here.

DISPIRITO: Putting you right in your place.

MEANEY: Yes.

SHAW: I really think it`s repulsive that they`re doing that. I feel if they`re going to do something like this, they need to have molesters or child predators as part of their ad campaign. I think it`s so crazy.

BARR: Why do you think it`s bad? I mean girls are getting their period at nine, nowadays. So maybe, you know.

MEANEY: Even younger than that.

BARR: Even younger than that. Yes. Because the hormones in the chicken.

MEANEY: And I`m prepared.

BARR: But why not? Why shouldn`t a little girl -- I mean when I was four, I used to like to dress up or wear heels and -- I mean maybe it`s not that bad.

DISPIRITO: It`s like we`re breeding body consciousness and insecurity into seven-year-old girls. We should do the decent thing. Do what every other retailer does, wait until their 12, right?

BARR: Good point.

SHAW: I just think there`s such a nationwide problem right now with young girls being overly sexualized. And the media -- in so many places and they`re getting it from all sides. It doesn`t need -- you don`t need to contribute more to the problem.

BARR: You know what I noticed (INAUDIBLE), all these girls that -- the little girls that are dressed like that, all their mothers are fat. That`s something that does bother me. If you really notice that, they all have very fat mothers. Any way --

MEANEY: And maybe these kids could wear the girls like the Olsen twins could wear that little push-up thing.

BARR: They might.

MEANEY: Because they have very small --

(CROSSTALK)

MEANEY: You know.

BARR: Good point. And they`re adults.

MEANEY: Yes. And they`re adults.

BARR: They`re trunks are about the size of a 7-year-old. Now, those guys are way too thin.

DISPIRITO: Charlie Sheen might want some of those girls for his internship. That`s bad. That`s what I`m afraid of.

(CROSSTALK)

DISPIRITO: They should get him and get involved --

SHAW: They have an intern application and next to it, you have the 7- year-old bikinis.

MEANEY: Charlie`s too old for --

(CROSSTALK)

BARR: Finally, you guys, finally, New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg took the stage at a political roast this weekend dressed in disco duds as Tony Manero from "Saturday Night Fever", or whatever it`s called. And also as "Superman". Take a look.

There he is. See?

MEANEY: The picture says it all. I mean what else are we going to --

SHAW: And he looks pretty buff, I think it was an Abercrombie --

MEANEY: Wow.

DISPIRITO: You think it`s padded?

SHAW: I don`t know.

BARR: He looks like he`s confidence to run one of the biggest states.

DISPIRITO: He looks very comfortable there. I think he`s just parodying the economy of New York City. That`s what that was. You know, falling down on stage, one accident after another.

BARR: I think he looks kind of hot. I have to admit.

SHAW: You like a man in a harness?

BARR: I like that -- he`s like a billionaire.

SHAW: He is a billionaire.

DISPIRITO: That does make you taller.

MEANEY: And then, when you have that harness on, that`s right in your crotch area.

DISPIRITO: It enhances all the right parts.

MEANEY: It`s right there. I`ve been in a harness many times.

BARR: I bet you have. Thanks, everyone. We`ll be right back.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Next on THE JOY BEHAR SHOW, Sheryl Crow sits down with Roseanne to talk about her battle with cancer and what she`s doing now to stay healthy.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BARR: Welcome back, everybody. I`m Roseanne Barr, bench-hitting for Joy Behar. And I`m very excited.

Sheryl Crow is a nine-time Grammy-winning musician, an activist and a mother. Her bout with breast cancer lead her to make healthier choices in the food she eats and she shows what she learned in her new cook book with chef Chuck White, "If It Makes You Healthy."

Welcome, Sheryl. Hi.

SHERYL CROW, MUSICIAN: Hi. How are you?

BARR: I`m good. How are you?

CROW: I like hearing you sing that.

BARR: I know. I love that song.

CROW: Thank you. My sister, I have to say this, I don`t want to make her mad. But my sister thought the book should be called, if it makes you healthy, then why the hell are you so fat?

(LAUGHTER)

BARR: No, but it is possible to be healthy and fat.

CROW: Absolutely.

BARR: And I`m very healthy. I`m fat as a horse and healthy as a horse, too. My cholesterol is zero.

CROW: Yes. You can eat super healthy and be, you know, heftier.

BARR: Yes. Hefty is a good word. I like hefty.

So, I was looking at your cookbook and you have lovely pictures of your lovely farm. I think it`s so great that you live on a farm. Talk about that, leaving L.A.

CROW: It`s great. I got diagnosed with breast cancer five years ago this month. So, I`m done, hopefully. And that was such a life-changing experience that I decided I wanted to adopt children. I wanted my life to look and feel differently, which it was going to any way because of the diagnoses.

And I moved home, basically. I grew up three hours from there. My whole family lives down there. My sister lived there. Bought some land.

BARR: Are you actually farming though or do you have people --

CROW: Well, we, I have a huge organic farm.

BARR: That`s cool.

CROW: We have chickens. A couple of what we call lawn art -- long horn cows, donkeys and then 17 horses.

But we hay. We harvest our hay and sell it to local farmers for cows.

BARR: I think it`s great.

CROW: It`s been really great, because my kids are both -- you know, they go down and get the eggs. Actually, the little one doesn`t. He`s only 10 months. They`re growing up with solar panels. And everything is very sustainable. We`re trying to be sustainable as possible.

But it`s very difficult, because, you know, you go to Germany or Paris, and you have solar panels, and you get 80 cents back on a dollar. In America, you get 15, or at least 15 cents.

BARR: Isn`t that crazy?

CROW: It should be made easier in this country.

BARR: They`re trying to prevent people from being self-sufficient, kind of.

CROW: Yes, I am al about making these things for affordable and more easily accessed. And it`s just really been exciting.

BARR: You are so ahead of the curve once again on this whole organic farming and eating locally.

Let`s talk about that for a minute, too. How important it is to eat locally.

CROW: Just talking about the organic farming, which I love that you`re doing it. It`s just all these reports coming out about antibiotics and things. My kids have been or my kid is going to school now and has been sick a lot and been on a lot of antibiotics and he`s 3 1/2 years. And hearing that about meat, it`s really alarming to me. And so --

BARR: What, how much --

(CROSSTALK)

CROW: The antibiotics in food and how they`re not necessarily working anymore because we`re developing a tolerance to the antibiotics that we`re used to taking. It`s just ridiculous with our meat now. And just --

BARR: It`s ridiculous what`s in our environment.

CROW: Yes, it really is.

BARR: That brings us to the subject of cancer, which you are a survivor of cancer.

And what would you say to women watching and men, too, who are undergoing treatment now for -- what advice can you give?

CROW: Well, a lot. First and foremost, I had breast cancer. Until there`s a cure, prevention is the best hope that we have. So, knowing your family history, knowing the trend (ph) of your breast and be indulgent about mammograms is really important. And I think that food -- this is the reason we did the cookbook -- food is an amazing tool in fortifying your immune system and defense against disease in general. There`s so much in food.

BARR: Like give us a couple of the best foods we can eat. Like what, broccoli?

CROW: Well, anything that`s really bright colored is going to be high in anti-oxidants. So, if you have a choice between a white cabbage and a purple cabbage, always go purple. Same with the colors (ph) of potatoes, leafy green vegetables are high in fiber and high antioxidants. Vitamin C, cumin and turmeric and cinnamon, all of these are -- some of them are like directly prostate fighting, ovarian cancer, and breast cancer. And all with information is in there.

And we wanted to make a cookbook that was really good and tasty. And that people like me who don`t cook, could cook. But there has some information on it, too.

BARR: OK. You were a big Obama supporter.

CROW: Yes.

BARR: And how are you feeling now about him? I mean, Matt Damon kind of said, I don`t even like Obama anymore, and he said that he misread his mandate from the people. You know, it`s kind of easy to jump on the gun now. But are you still -- how do you feel?

CROW: Well, you know -- I would say a couple of things. I think he got handed a very, very damaged government.

BARR: Didn`t he? Yes, that`s right.

CROW: And I think that he`s -- in my estimation, has been the first president really since Bobby Kennedy was running to speak in terms of consciousness. And I like that about him. And when I met him, I felt the vibe he was giving off was pretty much in line, that was all intact.

BARR: What about now with the whole Libya thing? What are you feeling about that?

CROW: You know, I have mixed emotions about it. I would like to know more. I feel like we didn`t know very much.

BARR: He`s going to be telling us tonight.

CROW: Yes. I`m definitely at home watching that.

You know, the only thing that I can say about where we are in our history is that to manifest peace throughout the world, we have to manifest peace within. And I have never seen our world, our country, in such a state of confusion and state of being checked out in all the wrong things than now -- I mean, in a personal level.

And that`s one of the reasons raising my kids on the farm has been really big (ph) for me, because I want my kids to grow up with a compassionate heart, without being --

BARR: And connecting with nature, come on. That`s a big stuff, our connection to nature, anything real, and fills us up with B.S.

But, sometimes, I like, well, when I`m out there on my farm and I`m digging in the dirt and stuff, I`m like this is a great opportunity for all women to like wake up and see. Remember what`s real. Remember what`s real and that you can grow it.

CROW: Absolutely. And I think there is really something to the -- roam the earth to the table and to the body that is a real lesson. You know, there`s a real lesson in that and --

BARR: Isn`t that feminism? I want to talk to you about feminism for a minute.

CROW: I definitely think so, because I think the planet as an organism, you know, we live of her energy. And she`s really suffering right now.

BARR: That`s right. We got to get her back. We have to have of the thing that sustains us. Why would we be in this crazy environment we`re trying to kill our own environment? So lemming, it drives nuts. That`s why I`m saying, women have got to wake up, eat healthy and start getting out there and taking over the world, don`t you agree, Sheryl?

CROW: I think (INAUDIBLE).

BARR: I love it.

More with Sheryl Crow in just a minute. Love it.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(MUSIC VIDEO CLIP)

BARR: I`m back with Sheryl Crow. And joining us to talk about their cookbook, "If It Makes You Healthy," is chef Chuck White.

Hi, Chuck.

CHUCK WHITE, CO-AUTHOR, "IF IT MAKES YOU HEALTHY": How`s it going?

BARR: Good. How are you doing?

WHITE: Thanks for having me.

BARR: I saw you on -- I got to get right to the big story -- I saw you guys on TV today. The "Today" show, I think. And you were talking about healthy cooking. I saw you put butter and bacon in the pan, and then you were frying the fish with bread crumbs. I`m like, this is like heaven nirvana, heaven on earth.

CROW: Just a tiny bit of crack cocaine, too.

(LAUGHTER)

BARR: How can you call butter and bacon and stuff like that healthy? I`m excited. Tell me.

WHITE: Well, you know, we also believe in a small, 10 percent cheat zone, you know? And, you know, some really -- we use soy butter, normally. So, it`s a little healthier for you.

CROW: We have substitutes in the book for those --

WHITE: Some substitutes, you know, some of the vegan recipes actually have substitutes that are -- you can use meat you wanted to. You can use, you know, real dairy, versus, you know, soy dairy. So, yes, a little bit of bacon sometimes is not bad, a little pat of margarine sometimes is not bad.

BARR: I`m thrilled that you`re saying stuff like that because nobody can live there whole life without eating butter again. It`s such a self- punishing thing. People say, if you`re going to be healthy, never have anything that tastes good. So, I`m really -- I think it`s great.

CROW: To think that everything is hard.

BARR: Yes.

WHITE: We`re trying to make healthy food taste good, make it fun, and not boring and bland, you know? You can`t eat 100 percent healthy all the time, which is kind of our outlook in the book there.

BARR: How about eating local and organic? Let`s talk about that for a minute.

WHITE: We try to do that as much as possible, especially on the road. Try to device a menu just based on what`s fresh. You know, you go to the market that day, see what`s --

CROW: You can wake up in any given city and have to go out and shop there. Sometimes, it means shopping at Wal-Mart, which is actually the biggest carrier of organic I think now. I might be wrong.

(CROSSTALK)

BARR: -- twice a day.

CROW: I did not say it`s better, I think.

WHITE: Yes.

BARR: But I mean, eating local is really -- it`s really, really important. I mean, you don`t want your lettuce brought in from Brazil.

WHITE: Exactly. It`s more accessible these days. You know, the CSA, the community supported agriculture, you know, is growing. It`s a lot easier. And you`re supporting, you know, your local economy and supporting your farmers as well.

BARR: And, quickly, what about eating in season. People like -- this is very important, too, for being healthy because people want to get like oranges in, you know, January and it`s just not right.

WHITE: Yes. Tomatoes are coming, you know, from South America and they`re really tomato when they`re picked, and they pump methane gas on them to turn them green when they hit the grocery store. You`re not really eating tomatoes.

BARR: It`s so important to talk about that. And, of course, you know, do you think that eating bad things causes cancer?

WHITE: Definitely. Some of the organic foods that we try to push, you know, called the dirty dozen, apples, and your lettuces, your pears and celery, always want to go organic with those because some the pesticides and chemicals they used definitely have an effect on your body. There`s no doubt about it.

BARR: Well, you guys have a really good and holistic view of food, which I think is fantastic. I made one of your dishes in here.

I can`t say it right. Quinoa.

WHITE: Quinoa

BARR: Quinoa Rider. But now, Quinoa and it was delicious. My boyfriend loved it, too. It was fantastic.

And then today, in "The New York Times," it has a whole article about Quinoa and how, like, you know, it`s a protein and now it`s like, you know, commodities, the prices are kind of driving. So, poor people, it used to be their staple food, they`re finding it hard to afford that.

CROW: Not a good reason not to use it, though.

BARR: Right.

CROW: But sometimes, these things, you have to figure out a way to adjust.

(CROSSTALK)

BARR: Well, we hope it will, but it`s hard to be holistic, isn`t it?

CROW: It`s hard. But, you know -- I have an almost 4-year-old. We`re speaking about this off-camera. And to get your children to eat healthy, something like Quinoa is an amazing tool because every kid loves pasta, and it`s a pasta that is not gluten. It has lots of protein in it and --

BARR: What about mac nuts? I got to get that in real quick. You know, grilled mac nuts over in Hawaii. They`re saying mat nut oil is better than olive oil, any other oil.

WHITE: No cholesterol.

(CROSSTALK)

WHITE: The only thing it`s cooking with and I wouldn`t cook so much on medium to high heat, because it has a really low smoke heat, which gets sometimes caused carcinogens.

(CROSSTALK)

BARR: I burn everything.

WHITE: -- flavoring and all that.

CROW: Careful cooking in that.

WHITE: That`s all we can use actually.

BARR: I love you for saying that. I love the mac nut.

Thank you, Sheryl. Her new book is called "If It Makes You Healthy" and we`ll be back in a moment. Thank you.

A.J HAMMER, "SHOWBIZ TONIGHT": Tonight on "SHOWBIZ TONIGHT": Attack on the teen moms. Brand new outrage today after a teen mom stars caught on tape brutally attacking another teen girl. At 11:00 p.m. Eastern and Pacific here on HLN.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BARR: American student Amanda Knox was back in an Italian courtroom this weekend, appealing her murder conviction. Here now to talk about the whole latest in the Knox case is Jane Velez-Mitchell, host of "ISSUES WITH JANE VELEZ-MITCHELL" on HLN.

Hi, Jane Velez-Mitchell.

JANE VELEZ-MITCHELL, HOST, "ISSUES WITH JANE VELEZ-MITCHELL: Roseanne, great to see you.

BARR: Great to see you, too.

Do you think she did it, Amanda?

VELEZ-MITCHELL: No, I think this is a horrific case. I think that this is a horrific case. This girl has been behind bars now for 3 1/2 years. She could spend 26 years behind bars.

But the great news is: on her appeal, one of the key witnesses is totally falling apart on the stand. This is a homeless guy who claims he saw Amanda and her boyfriend talking intensely near the crime scene on the night that this British student, Meredith Kercher, was murdered. Well, on appeal, he has given the wrong dates. He`s saying he knows he saw them because all the young people were wearing these masks going to and from the clubs because it was Halloween.

Well, she wasn`t murdered on Halloween. She was murdered on the day after Halloween. We all know you don`t wear costumes on the day after Halloween.

BARR: Well, some do.

(CROSSTALK)

BARR: But, yes, I mean, this guy -- this is a good break for her that he`s coming forward now and going I didn`t know what day it was and I was all messed up on heroin. Plus, this same guy has been the prosecutorial witness in the host of a number of other murder case, right?

VELEZ-MITCHELL: This is what makes so suspicious and really scary. It`s an indictment of the Italian criminal justice system. This guy is a homeless drug addict who admits he was high at the time and apparently, prosecutors trot him out every time they need an "eyewitness" to bolster a theory of a case me has been a key witness in several murder cases.

So, how many innocent people, Roseanne, are sitting in jail in Italy because of this homeless drug addict?

BARR: I`ll tell you what I think, Jane -- I think he killed them all.

VELEZ-MITCHELL: Yes.

(LAUGHTER)

BARR: I`m serious. How many murders is one guy going to witness?

VELEZ-MITCHELL: Yes, and the defense has been saying for three and a half years, hey, this guy is unreliable. Thank God there`s this appeal, which is really like a whole new trial because I got to say -- I think the prosecutor had it out for Amanda Knox from the beginning.

BARR: Tat she`s like a rich American. That`s how they think, right?

VELEZ-MITCHELL: Do you know that most of jurors on the day of the verdict, the day they convicted her, they wore the colors of the Italian flag into court? And when she was convicted, cheers erupted and there were all sorts of cheering because this had really become a strain in the relations between Italy and the United States as Americans --

BARR: So, they`re treating it like it`s a soccer match or something, right?

VELEZ-MITCHELL: You got it right, exactly. And this prosecutor -- he is, well, a piece of work. First of all, he abused his office in a high- profile case in the past and he`s known for having an overactive imagination and consulting with bloggers who have conspiracy theories. And he came up with this idea after a blogger suggested it that she was the mastermind of a drug-fuelled sex game on that night and that they had Meredith, this British student, on her knees, and they were engaged in all sorts of satanic sexual rituals with drugs.

Where is any evidence on this?

BARR: They say there isn`t any DNA evidence at all or any kind of evidence.

VELEZ-MITCHELL: The only thing they have is knife which they didn`t find at the crime scene, which they found at the apartment of the boyfriend and it has Amanda`s DNA on the handle. Well, it`s her boyfriend`s apartment. So, yes, she might have DNA on the handle.

And they are going to do independent testing now on that minuscule amount of DNA.

BARR: It`s such a miscarriage of justice. I mean, you kind of hope that it -- you know, is overturned or at least looked more closely at. Have they even looked at anybody else?

VELEZ-MITCHELL: Well, they`ve got this third guy who has already been convicted who was doing time, and the prosecutor said he was also involved in the sex game. But really it is -- it`s a stain on the Italian criminal justice system. When I go to Italy, I`m going to be a very, very good girl because I wouldn`t want to be caught up in anything given that they created a 23-minute video, reconstruction of their theory of the crime that is not based on anything.

It looks like a sexually charged video game that they showed to the jurors who were not --

BARR: They probably got their prime minister that, Berlusconi guy --

(LAUGHTER)

VELEZ-MITCHELL: He makes a cameo appearance probably.

BARR: It is a crazy country. I don`t want to go into too long a story, but I got like way laid there once at the airport because somebody said I had drugs in my suitcase -- somebody that I used to be married to.

VELEZ-MITCHELL: Ooh!

BARR: So, I got pulled in and they had all these armed soldiers, they went through all my -- they went through all my stuff and, of course --

VELEZ-MITCHELL: Did they frisk you?

BARR: They did everything, went in the bathroom with me to look at -- they did, like I was a big -- I`m on a sitcom.

VELEZ-MITCHELL: Did you enjoy it?

(LAUGHTER)

BARR: No, I did not. I said I`m never coming back here no matter how damn good your food is you bunch of --

VELEZ-MITCHELL: I love Italy, but I wouldn`t want to be arrested there, that`s for sure.

BARR: So, you think that their guy did it?

VELEZ-MITCHELL: I don`t know who did it. It`s a very strange case. You have to realize, Amanda didn`t do herself any favors.

BARR: No.

VELEZ-MITCHELL: She was apparently cart-wheeling after police started interrogating her and behaving oddly. But she was a young college student. I certainly behaved in an odd way when I was in my 20s, I wasn`t mature. And so, why are we assuming --

BARR: Not me, I had five kids in my 20s. I waited until my 40s to go nuts.

But anyway, thanks, Jane. Thank you.

VELEZ-MITCHELL: Thank you so much.

BARR: You know, I never missed you, never missed Joy, never missed Nancy every night.

VELEZ-MITCHELL: Love it.

BARR: Be sure to tune in tomorrow when I sit down with my good friend Michael Moore.

And before I go, Geraldine Ferraro died this weekend. She was the first female vice presidential candidate, running with Walter Mondale in 1984. I voted for her. She helped make it possible for women like Hillary Clinton to run for high office and, of course, she also made it possible for people like Sarah Palin to run but whatever.

Anyway, I`m thinking of actually running for presidency of the United States as well as prime minister of Israel, it`s a twofer.

And I would like to give a shout-out to Geraldine Ferraro because we need more women like her. Good night, everybody.

END

Content and programming copyright 2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP.      ALL RIGHTS    RESERVED. Copyright 2011 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.    All materials    herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be    reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast    without the prior written permission of CQ-Roll Call. You may not alter or    remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the    content.      

Document CNNJBS0020110329e73s00001



 Wal-Mart suit to be a class action? Supreme Court’s decision crucial to employment    discrimination  claims

Mark Sherman                    The Associated Press    
1,088 words
28 March 2011
Charleston Gazette
CGAZ
P2A
English
(Copyright 2011)    

WASHINGTON - Christine Kwapnoski hasn't done too badly in nearly 25 years in the Wal-Mart family, making more than $60,000 a year in a job she enjoys most days.

But Kwapnoski said she faced obstacles at Wal-Mart-owned Sam's Club stores in both Missouri and California: Men making more than women and getting promoted faster.

She never heard a supervisor tell a man, as she said one told her, to "doll up" or "blow the cobwebs off" her makeup.

Once she got over the fear that she might be fired, she joined what has turned into the largest job discrimination lawsuit ever.

The 46-year-old single mother of two is one of the named plaintiffs in a suit that will be argued at the Supreme Court on Tuesday. At stake is whether the suit can go forward as a class action that could involve 500,000 to 1.6 million women, according to varying estimates, and potentially could cost the world's largest retailer billions of dollars.

However, the case's potential importance issue goes well beyond the Wal-Mart dispute, as evidenced by more than two dozen briefs filed by business interests on Wal-Mart's side, and civil rights, consumer and union groups on the other.

The question is crucial to the viability of discrimination claims, which become powerful vehicles to force change when they are presented together, instead of individually. Class actions increase pressure on businesses to settle suits because of the cost of defending them and the potential for very large judgments.

Columbia University law professor John Coffee said the high court could bring a virtual end to employment discrimination class actions filed under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, depending on how it decides the Wal-Mart case.

"Litigation brought by individuals under Title VII is just too costly," Coffee said. "It's either class action or nothing."

Illustrating the value of class actions, Brad Seligman, the California-based lawyer who conceived of and filed the suit 10 years ago, said the average salary for a woman at Wal-Mart was $13,000, about $1,100 less than the average for a man, when the case began. "That's hugely significant if you're making $13,000 a year, but not enough to hire a lawyer and bring a case."

The company has fought the suit every step of the way, Seligman said, because it is the "biggest litigation threat Wal-Mart has ever faced."

A trial judge and the federal appeals court in San Francisco, over a fierce dissent, said the suit could go forward.

Wal-Mart wants the high court to stop the suit in its tracks. The company argues it includes too many women with too many different positions in its 3,400 stores across the country. Wal-Mart says its policies prohibit discrimination and that most management decisions are made at the store and regional levels, not at its Bentonville, Ark., headquarters.

Theodore J. Boutrous, Wal-Mart's California-based lawyer, said there is no evidence that women are poorly treated at Wal-Mart. "The evidence is the contrary of that," Boutrous said.

The company is not conceding that any woman has faced discrimination, but says that if any allegations are proven, they are isolated. "People will make errors," said Gisel Ruiz, Wal-Mart's executive vice president for people, as the company calls its human resources unit. "People are people."

Ruiz paints a very different picture of the opportunities offered women at Wal-Mart. She joined the company straight from college in 1992. "In less than four years, I went from an assistant manager trainee to running my own store," she said. "I'm one of thousands of women who have had a positive experience at Wal-Mart."

Kwapnoski, who works at the Sam's Club in Concord, Calif., is one of two women who continue to work at Wal-Mart while playing a prominent role in the suit. The other is Betty Dukes, a greeter at the Walmart in Pittsburg, Calif.

"It's very hard for anyone to understand how difficult that is and what courage that is," Seligman said of Kwapnoski and Dukes. "They're Public Enemy No. 1 at Wal-Mart and they are known for their involvement in this lawsuit. Nevertheless, they get up and go to work every day."

Kwapnoski didn't want to discuss any issues she faces at work as a result of the suit.

She said she has seen some changes at Wal-Mart since the suit was filed in 2001. The company now posts all its openings electronically. "It does give people a better idea of what's out there, but they still can be very easily passed over," she said. "But before you didn't even know the position was open."

The suit, citing what are now dated figures from 2001, contends that women are grossly underrepresented among managers, holding just 14 percent of store manager positions compared with more than 80 percent of lower-ranking supervisory jobs that are paid by the hour. Wal-Mart responds that women in its retail stores made up two-thirds of all employees and two-thirds of all managers in 2001.

Kwapnoski said she and a lot of women were promoted into management just after the suit was filed, although she has had only a couple of pay increases in the nine years since. She is the assistant manager in her store's groceries and produce sections.

Now, she said, promotions are back to the way they were before, favoring men over women.

She said she's hoping the long-running court fight will force Wal-Mart to recognize that, stories like Ruiz's aside, women are not valued as much as men are and that her bosses will begin to "make sure that good men and good women are being promoted, not just men."

ONLINE:

Briefs in the case: http://tinyurl.com/4ckzfz5

AP photo

Christine Kwapnoski at home in Bay Point, Calif., March 17. Kwapnoski, an assistant manager with Sam’s Club in Concord, Calif., is one of the named plaintiffs in a sex discrimination suit against Wal-Mart over pay and promotions. If the court approves, it would be the largest class action in U.S. history, affecting 500,000 to 1.6 million women. Arguments are Tuesday.

Document CGAZ000020110329e73s0004e



International
Wal-Mart caught in mother of all job bias lawsuits

Associated Press      
485 words
28 March 2011
Indian Express
AIWINE
English
Copyright 2011 Indian Express Pty. Ltd      

Christine Kwapnoski hasn't done too badly in nearly 25 years in the Wal-Mart family, making more than $60,000 a year in a job she enjoys most days.

But Kwapnoski says she faced obstacles at Wal-Mart-owned Sam's Club stores in both Missouri and California: Men making more than women and getting promoted faster.

Once she got over the fear that she might be fired, she joined what has turned into the largest job discrimination lawsuit ever. She never heard a supervisor tell a man, as she says one told her, to "doll up" or "blow the cobwebs off'" her make-up.

The 46-year-old single mother of two is one of the named plaintiffs in a suit that will be argued at the Supreme Court on Tuesday. At stake is whether the suit can go forward as a class action that could involve 500,000 to 1.6 million women, and potentially could cost the world's largest retailer billions of dollars.

The question is crucial to the viability of discrimination claims, which become powerful vehicles to force change when they are presented together, instead of individually. Class actions increase pressure on businesses to settle suits because of the cost of defending them and the potential for very large judgments.

Brad Seligman, the lawyer who filed the suit 10 years ago, said that at Wal-Mart, women make up about two-thirds of the hourly employees but less than 14 per cent of store managers. And they earned less than men, even though they had, on average, more seniority.

The company has fought the suit every step of the way, Seligman said, because it is the "biggest litigation threat Wal-Mart has ever faced."

Wal-Mart argues the suit includes too many women with different positions in its 3,400 stores across the US. Wal-Mart says its policies prohibit discrimination and most management decisions are made at the store and regional levels, not at its headquarters. Theodore J Boutrous, Wal-Mart's lawyer, said there is no evidence that women are poorly treated at Wal-Mart. The company says that if any allegations are proven, they are isolated. "People will make errors," said Gisel Ruiz, Wal-Mart's executive vice president for people, as the company calls its human resources unit.

Ruiz joined the company straight from college. "In less than four years, I went from an assistant manager trainee to running my own store," she said.

Kwapnoski, who works at the Sam's Club in California, is one of two who continue to work at Wal-Mart while playing a prominent role in the suit. Kwapnoski said a lot of women were promoted into management just after the suit, but she has had only a couple of pay increases in the nine years since.

Document AIWINE0020110328e73s0001e



Wal-Mart asks Supreme Court to deny class-action suit by female workers; If the Supreme Court lets female workers’ suit go forward, it would be the largest employment    discrimination  suit in U.S. history.

By Robert Barnes      
1,153 words
28 March 2011
Washington Post.com
WPCOM
English
Copyright 2011, The Washington Post Co.    All Rights Reserved.      

Like the retail behemoth at its center, everything about the Supreme Court extravaganza known as Wal-Mart v. Dukes is super-sized.

The number of women who could be included in the sex discrimination class-action suit is measured in millions. The amount of damages for which the nation's largest private employer could be liable is estimated in billions.

If the Supreme Court agrees the case can move forward, it would be the largest employment discrimination class-action suit in U.S. history. As Wal-Mart likes to point out, the suit could include more people than the number now serving in the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines and Coast Guard combined. Oral arguments are scheduled for Tuesday.

The prospect of such a massive lawsuit — or, alternatively, a ruling that hobbles workers from mounting class-action suits against large, national employers — has drawn an outpouring of competing briefs from corporate America and the nation's leading civil rights groups.

The suit, filed by six female Wal-Mart employees in 2001, will also spotlight two intriguing story lines about the Supreme Court.

One is the perception, reinforced by President Obama, congressional Democrats and civil rights groups, that the court is overly protective of the corporate world. There is evidence to support the claim as well as exceptions, but there seems little doubt about how a ruling for Wal-Mart would be portrayed by liberal groups already suspicious of the court and the huge company.

Also notable is that the case — featuring charges by women of unequal pay, sexist remarks and insurmountable obstacles to promotion — arrives at a court whose membership for the first time is one-third female.

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, 78, the oldest member of the court, made her career advancing the rights of women and challenging laws that treated the sexes differently. She has been joined by fellow Democratic nominees Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan.

"The mere presence of three female justices on a previously male-dominated bench gives the plaintiffs' side a symbolic boost," said Barbara Perry, who studies the court at the University of Virginia's Miller Center for Public Affairs. Referring to the Wal-Mart greeter who is the lead plaintiff in the case, she added, "The more women on the bench, the more likely Betty Dukes' story of discrimination will resonate."

That said, Perry also noted that the court is not deciding whether Wal-Mart is guilty of discrimination. Instead, it will decide whether the small group of plaintiffs have satisfied federal class-action rules, allowing them to stand for co-workers nationwide who they say have suffered under common discriminatory practices. The class would include all women who have worked at Wal-Mart since December 1998.

A federal judge in San Francisco ruled that the suit could go forward. The plaintiffs' attorney, Brad Seligman, a class-action specialist at the Impact Fund, a tiny public-interest law firm in Berkeley, Calif., assembled statistics showing that women constitute 80 percent of hourly Wal-Mart workers but hold only a third of managerial jobs. The percentage decreases on each step up the company hierarchy.

There were allegations of pay disparities between men and women; a lack of job postings, keeping women from career advancement; and a generally hostile work environment for women. Affidavits from more than 100 female workers brought stories of women being called "Janey Qs" and being told that men were paid more because they had families to support, as well as a worker's complaint that her male manager told her to "doll up."

Seligman said that although pay and promotion decisions are made at the local level, they reflect an attitude from the top.

"Wal-Mart has a very in-depth training program, very careful corporate oversight, a strong corporate culture, all designed to ensure a uniformity in decision making," he said in a recent interview.

Wal-Mart responds in its brief to the court that because the plaintiffs cannot prove the company has a doctrine of discrimination — indeed, it has a specific policy of nondiscrimination — "plaintiffs premised their motion on statistics, sociology, and anecdotes."

At the time of the district judge's decision in 2004, the company's retail operation included seven divisions, 41 regions, 3,400 stores and more than 1million employees.

"The named plaintiffs' claims cannot conceivably be typical of the claims of the strangers they seek to represent," Wal-Mart said.

The case languished for years at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit in San Francisco before a panel upheld the judge's decision. The full court agreed in a 6 to 5 decision, although the dissenters practically urged the Supreme Court to take up the issue.

The millions of women who have worked at Wal-Mart, Circuit Chief Judge Alex Kozinski wrote, "have little in common but their sex and this lawsuit."

The company contends that the plaintiffs' goals of back pay, punitive damages and a change in the company's allegedly discriminatory practices run counter to the court's past decisions on class certification.

Wal-Mart's attorney in the case, Los Angeles lawyer Theodore J. Boutrous Jr., said the company is not arguing that the size of the potential class — which Seligman estimates would be at least 1 million women — renders it unworthy of certification.

"But the size of the class does really magnify the deeper problems of the case," he said in an interview. Seligman said a class-action suit is the only way to help women who have encountered discrimination. The average difference in annual pay between male and female workers, he said, was a little more than $1,000.

"These are not cases they could possibly find counsel to litigate, even if they were willing to go up against Wal-Mart," he said.

Civil rights and public-interest groups say the case is important because of the message it would send about the avenues available to employees at big companies. Paul Bland, a senior lawyer at Public Justice, said Wal-Mart is pushing a message that it is "too big to sue."

By agreeing, he said, the justices would be saying, "As long as you discriminate against enough people, courts can't get involved."

But Robin Conrad of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said a decision upholding the plaintiffs would turn even frivolous class-action suits into "bet-the-company propositions" for employers who would not want to risk the potential losses at trial.

"If this class action gets certified, it's open season for all class actions to be certified," not just for discrimination claims but also for product liability and financial services, she said.

barnesr@washpost.com

Document WPCOM00020120909e73s00a13



News
Court to take up claim of sex bias -- Thousands may get to sue Wal-Mart

Associated Press      
271 words
28 March 2011
The Commercial Appeal
MMPH
Final
A7
English
Copyright 2011 Scripps Howard Publishing, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

WASHINGTON - Christine Kwapnoski hasn't done too badly in nearly 25 years in the Wal-Mart family, making more than $60,000 a year in a job she enjoys most days.

But Kwapnoski says she faced obstacles at Wal-Mart-owned Sam's Club stores in both Missouri and California: Men making more than women and getting promoted faster.

The 46-year-old single mother of two is one of the named plaintiffs in a suit that will be argued at the Supreme Court on Tuesday. At stake is whether the suit can go forward as a class action that could involve 500,000 to 1.6 million women, according to varying estimates, and potentially could cost the world's largest retailer billions of dollars.

But the case's potential importance goes well beyond the Wal-Mart dispute, as evidenced by more than two dozen briefs filed by business interests on Wal-Mart's side and civil rights, consumer and union groups on the other.

The question is crucial to the viability of discrimination claims, which become powerful vehicles to force change when they are presented together, instead of individually. Class actions increase pressure on businesses to settle suits because of the cost of defending them and the potential for very large judgments.

Columbia University law professor John Coffee said the high court could bring a virtual end to employment discrimination class actions filed under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, depending on how it decides the Wal-Mart case.

Document MMPH000020110328e73s0003m



Labor & Employment
Where 'Wal-Mart' And ERISA Class Actions Meet; All eyes are on Supreme Court determination on standard for certification.

BY MYRON D. RUMELD, BRIAN S. NEULANDER, AND GREGORY J. COUILLOU      
2,765 words
28 March 2011
New York Law Journal
NYLJ
p.11, col.1
Volume 245; Issue 58
English
Copyright 2011 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

In Wal-Mart Stores Inc. v. Dukes , No. 10-277, the U.S. Supreme Court will address the standards for class certification in employment discrimination lawsuits. The ruling will likely impact the adjudication of class certification motions in other areas of law as well. It should be of particular interest to ERISA litigators.

Employment discrimination and ERISA lawsuits present similar class certification issues. In both contexts there are common issues that make class certification seem appealing at first glance: in employment cases, whether there is a pattern or practice of discrimination; and in ERISA cases, whether the plan fiduciaries acted imprudently. Yet there are also individual issues of liability and relief in each context that call into question the appropriateness of class treatment. Not surprisingly, therefore, in both the employment and ERISA contexts, courts have divided on the standards for adjudicating class certification motions.

Wal-Mart presents the Supreme Court with the opportunity to formulate uniform class certification standards to govern these types of claims. The Court will review the certification of a nationwide class of women alleging a pattern or practice of discrimination, and seeking declaratory and injunctive relief, as well as billions of dollars in back pay. The Court will address specifically the certification of a class under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23(b)(2), which by its terms is limited to claims for "declaratory and injunctive relief," yet has been utilized in employment cases seeking monetary relief as well.

The outcome of this dispute is significant, since employment claims are less likely to be found suitable for certification under the other two Rule 23(b) criteria: Rule 23(b)(1), which is generally limited to "limited fund" cases or situations where there is a risk of inconsistent verdicts1; or Rule 23(b)(3), which requires a finding that common questions of law or fact predominate over issues affecting individual members, and that the class device is the superior means for fairly and efficiently resolving the dispute.2

Given the similarity of issues presented in employment and ERISA class certification motions, the ERISA litigation bar will likely have much to learn from the Supreme Court's ruling in Wal-Mart . But the reverse may be true as well. An evaluation of ERISA class action lawsuits suggests that, as in employment cases, courts have been unduly preoccupied with the nature of the relief demanded. An approach that focuses instead on the individualized aspects of the liability issues may prove to be more practical, easier to administer, and more aligned with the letter and spirit of Rule 23.

'Wal-Mart' Petition

The class certification issues presented in Wal-Mart have generated increased attention since the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1991 (CRA),3which amended Title VII and 42 U.S.C. 1981, among other statutes. Prior to the CRA, courts routinely certified classes under Rule 23(b)(2), notwithstanding the availability of individual back-pay relief, based on the theory that the back pay was tied to the declaratory and injunctive relief and, as such, was rooted in grounds generally applicable to the class.4 After the CRA's enactment, courts questioned whether, in light of the availability of compensatory and punitive damages and jury trials, class certification of pattern or practice employment discrimination claims was still appropriate.

A leading example of the CRA's impact on class action jurisprudence is the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit's ruling in Allison v. Citgo Petroleum Corp.5 The Allison court declined to certify a pattern or practice discrimination suit seeking injunctive, declaratory and monetary relief, and punitive damages for alleged discrimination in hiring, promotion, compensation, and training policies at the defendant's manufacturing facilities. In so ruling, the court determined that plaintiffs could not satisfy Rule 23(b)(2) because the monetary relief demanded was not "incidental to [the] requested injunctive or declaratory relief."6 The court defined incidental damages as those "that flow directly from liability to the class as a whole on the claims forming the basis of the injunctive or declaratory relief."7

According to the court, Rule 23(b)(2)'s drafters never intended for the ordinary class certification requirements delineated in Rule 23(b)(3)—i.e., the predominance of common issues and manageability of the class—to be disregarded or circumvented in a Title VII case.8 Rather, it was presumed that these criteria would automatically be satisfied in the typical "pattern or practice" case seeking class-wide injunctive relief.9 As the court observed, "because of the group nature of the harm alleged and the broad character of the relief sought, the (b)(2) class is, by its very nature, assumed to be a homogenous and cohesive group with few conflicting interests among its members."10 But, "as claims for individually based money damages begin to predominate, the presumption of cohesiveness decreases while the need for enhanced procedural safeguards to protect the individual rights of class members increases."11 Thus, the court reasoned, Rule 23(b)(2) certification should be available only where the monetary damages are incidental to the declaratory and injunctive relief.

The Fourth, Sixth, Seventh, and Eleventh circuits have adopted Allison's "incidental damages" test.12 However, in Robinson v. Metro-North Commuter Railroad , the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit rejected Allison's "incidental damages" test in favor of an "ad hoc balancing" approach.13 Under that approach, a court must "assess whether (b) (2) certification is appropriate in light of 'the relative importance of the remedies sought, given all of the facts and circumstances of the case,'"14 and may certify a Rule 23(b)(2) class if it determines that "the positive weight or value [to the plaintiffs] of the injunctive or declaratory relief sought is predominant even though compensatory or punitive damages are also claimed."15

In Wal-Mart , the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, sitting en banc, adopted a new standard under which Rule 23(b) (2) certification is available if the monetary relief is not "superior in strength" to the injunctive and declaratory relief sought by the class.16 Applying this standard, the majority ruled that plaintiffs were entitled to Rule 23(b)(2) certification, notwithstanding plaintiffs' demand for billions of dollars in back pay,17 because: the calculation of back pay involved "[relatively un]complicated factual determinations and few[] individualized issues,"18 and back pay was "an integral component of Title VII's 'make whole' remedial scheme."19

'Overdelegation' Theory

The debate over Rule 23(b) (2) standards has accompanied a significant evolution in the modern-day pattern or practice claim. Whereas in the past these claims were directed at centralized employment practices, in recent years, as employment decisions have become more decentralized, plaintiffs have proceeded on the theory that the "overdelegation" of decision-making authority to lower-level supervisors with unfettered discretion gives rise to a pattern or practice of discrimination.20

That same theory is espoused in Wal-Mart . The plaintiffs claim that Wal-Mart maintains a policy of overdelegating unfettered decision-making authority to its individual supervisors in retail stores throughout the country.21 The Ninth Circuit concluded that plaintiffs' evidence was sufficient "to raise the common question whether Wal-Mart's female employees nationwide were subjected to a single set of corporate policies...that may have worked to unlawfully discriminate against them in violation of Title VII,"22 and that "the absence of a specific discriminatory policy" was not fatal at the certification stage.23

Wal-Mart presents the Supreme Court with the opportunity to examine the suitability of the case to class treatment in light of both the relief demanded and the underlying theory of liability. The discussion of ERISA class action litigation that follows suggests that an approach that focuses on the theory of liability, rather than the nature of the monetary relief demanded, may provide the more appropriate framework for resolving these issues.

ERISA Cases

In the ERISA context, class certification issues similar to those in Wal-Mart often arise in connection with "communication" cases, i.e., cases in which participants claim to have suffered harm as a result of misleading communications contained in plan documents or made by plan fiduciaries.

In these cases, there is a common issue that could conceivably satisfy Rule 23(a)'s commonality and typicality requirements: whether defendants violated statutory rules governing plan communications or engaged in a breach of fiduciary duty in the form of a material misrepresentation or nondisclosure. However, there are also individualized liability issues, such as whether, and the extent to which, each participant relied to his or her detriment on the allegedly misleading communication or material nondisclosure, or was otherwise harmed or prejudiced by it. As in the employment context, Rule 23(b)(2) may be the lynchpin for class certification, as Rule 23(b)(1) is infrequently an appropriate vehicle for certification of these types of claims and plaintiffs may have a difficult time satisfying Rule 23(b)(3)'s standards.

In these cases, focusing the class certification inquiry on the relief demanded may be misguided and could lead to bizarre results. Because the relief for ERISA "communication" claims is generally limited to equitable remedies,24 a "relief-centric" approach would result in these types of claims being considered more suitable for class treatment than investment loss cases, for which damages relief would typically be available.25 But concluding that investment loss cases are less suitable to class certification than communication claims, simply because of the relief demanded, is illogical.

Because the investment loss cases focus almost exclusively on the prudence of the defendant's investment decision, a finding of liability on this issue could result in relief for every class member who suffered a loss as a result of the imprudent conduct. By contrast, for communication claims, a finding that the plan fiduciaries made a misrepresentation does not necessarily entitle anyone to relief since a participant must not only establish that a misrepresentation was made, but also that he or she was likely prejudiced by, or was detrimentally harmed by, the challenged practice.26 Depending on the nature of the harm alleged and the evaluation required, the lawsuit could become consumed by individual liability issues.

Accordingly, in ERISA cases the presence or absence of compensatory damages relief should not drive the issue of whether the claim is suitable for class treatment. Rather, the focus should be on the nature of the inquiry that the court need make for purposes of rendering individual liability findings.

Lessons Learned

The conclusions reached from an evaluation of ERISA cases can be applied readily to Wal-Mart and other class action employment claims. Although the Supreme Court could refine the Rule 23(b)(2) inquiry based on the type of relief requested, the focus should be on the nature of the liability inquiry and the extent to which it is individualized. For most claims based on the theory that the company overdelegated decision-making authority to individual supervisors, a finding of a pattern or practice of discrimination would merely be the beginning of the analysis. Before providing relief, there would need to be an individualized inquiry, for each individual supervisor, as to whether he abused his discretion, and whether this was manifested in the form of discrimination against the members of the class working for that supervisor.

The Supreme Court should consider whether, in these circumstances, the liability inquiry is too individualized to permit class certification under Rule 23(b)(2); or stated differently, the class is insufficiently cohesive to warrant certification under that rule. Doing so would avoid the need to draw up any black-line rules based on the type of relief demanded.

Conclusion

In both employment discrimination and ERISA lawsuits, courts have for too long been preoccupied with the nature and characterization of the relief demanded in determining the standards for class certification. The focus should be on the nature of the claims and whether they require individual liability assessments.

Where the claim is such that no individual relief can be awarded until there has been an individualized liability determination, class certification is not appropriate, even without regard to the nature of the relief demanded. If the Supreme Court were to embrace these principles in Wal-Mart , it could fashion standards for class certification that would more effectively govern future class certification motions, in both employment discrimination and ERISA suits alike.

1. "Rule 23(b)(1)(A) 'takes in cases where the party is obliged by law to treat the members of the class alike...or where the party must treat all alike as a matter of practical necessity.... Rule 23(b)(1)(B) includes, for example, 'limited fund' cases, instances in which numerous persons make claims against a fund insufficient to satisfy all claims." Amchem Prods. Inc. v. Windsor , 521 U.S. 591, 614 (1997) (citations omitted). See also FED. R. CIV. P. 23(b)(1) advisory committee's notes to 1966 amends.

2. Class certification is also conditioned on satisfying all four of the Rule 23(a) criteria, including: numerosity, commonality, typicality, and adequacy of representation.

3. Pub. L. No. 102-166, 105 Stat. 1071 (1991).

4. See, e.g., Pettway v. Am. Cast Iron Pipe Co. , 494 F.2d 211, 256-58 (5th Cir. 1974).

5. 151 F.3d 402 (5th Cir. 1998).

6. Id. at 415.

7. Id.

8. See id. at 413 n.6.

9. Id. at 412-14.

10. Id. at 413.

11. Id. (citation omitted).

12. Id. at 415; see also Thorn v. Jeffers-on-Pilot Life Ins. Co. , 445 F.3d 311, 330 & n.25 (4th Cir. 2006); Reeb v. Ohio Dept. of Rehab. & Corr. , 435 F.3d 639, 649-50 (6th Cir. 2006); Cooper v. S. Co. , 390 F.3d 695, 720 (11th Cir. 2004), overruled on other grounds by Ash v. Tyson Foods Inc. , 546 U.S. 454, 457 (2006) (per curiam); Lemon v. Int'l Union of Operating Eng'rs , 216 F.3d 577, 580-81 (7th Cir. 2000).

13. 267 F.3d 147, 164 (2d Cir. 2001).

14. Id. (quoting Hoffman v. Honda of Am. Mfg. Inc. , 191 F.R.D. 530, 536 (S.D. Ohio 1999)).

15. Id. (quoting Allison , 151 F.3d at 430 (Dennis, J., dissenting)) (alteration in original) (internal quotations omitted).

16. Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , 603 F.3d 571, 616 (9th Cir.) (citation omitted), cert. granted in part, 131 S. Ct. 795 (2010).

17. Id. at 619-20.

18. Id. at 619 (quoting Thorn , 445 F.3d at 331-32) (alteration in original) (internal quotations omitted).

19. Id. (quoting Allison , 151 F.3d at 415) (internal quotations omitted).

20. See Caridad v. Metro-North Commuter R.R. , 191 F.3d 283, 291-93 (2d Cir. 1999), overruled on other grounds by In re IPO Sec. Litig. , 471 F.3d 24, 39-42 (2d Cir. 2006).

21. Dukes , 603 F.3d at 577-78, 600.

22. Id. at 612 (emphasis omitted).

23. Id. at 603.

24. Communication claims are typically brought pursuant to ERISA Section 502(a) (3), 29 U.S.C. 1132(a)(3), which limits remedies to "other appropriate equitable relief." But see infra n.27.

25. These claims are typically brought pursuant to ERISA Section 502(a)(2), 29 U.S.C. 1132(a)(2), which allows participants to sue for the relief available under ERISA Section 409. Section 409 provides for a broad array of relief, including monetary restitution.

26. The precise standard of proof is a subject of much debate, and may be resolved, at least in part, in Cigna Corp. v. Amara , No. 09-804, a suit presently awaiting decision by the Supreme Court. For purposes of this discussion, it is assumed that some showing of individual harm will still be required for all or most types of ERISA communication claims, and thus that there will be a valid question of whether to certify a class in the presence of these individualized issues.

MYRON D. RUMELD is a partner in Proskauer Rose's labor and employment law department and co-chair of its employee benefits litigation group. BRIAN S. NEULANDER and GREGORY J. COUILLOU are associates in the firm's labor and employment law department and members of its employee benefits litigation group and class/collective action group, respectively.      

Document NYLJ000020110404e73s0001l



A-Section
Supreme Court faces Wal-Mart-size decision

Robert Barnes      
1,128 words
28 March 2011
The Washington Post
WP
FINAL
A01
English
Copyright 2011, The Washington Post Co. All Rights Reserved      

Like the retail behemoth at its center, everything about the Supreme Court extravaganza known as Wal-Mart v. Dukes is super-sized.

The number of women who could be included in the sex discrimination class-action suit is measured in millions. The amount of damages for which the nation's largest private employer could be liable is estimated in billions.

If the Supreme Court agrees the case can move forward, it would be the largest employment discrimination class-action suit in U.S. history. As Wal-Mart likes to point out, the suit could include more people than the number now serving in the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines and Coast Guard combined. Oral arguments are scheduled for Tuesday.

The prospect of such a massive lawsuit - or, alternatively, a ruling that hobbles workers from mounting class-action suits against large, national employers - has drawn an outpouring of competing briefs from corporate America and the nation's leading civil rights groups.

The suit, filed by six female Wal-Mart employees in 2001, will also spotlight two intriguing story lines about the Supreme Court.

One is the perception, reinforced by President Obama, congressional Democrats and civil rights groups, that the court is overly protective of the corporate world. There is evidence to support the claim as well as exceptions, but there seems little doubt about how a ruling for Wal-Mart would be portrayed by liberal groups already suspicious of the court and the huge company.

Also notable is that the case - featuring charges by women of unequal pay, sexist remarks and insurmountable obstacles to promotion - arrives at a court whose membership for the first time is one-third female.

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, 78, the oldest member of the court, made her career advancing the rights of women and challenging laws that treated the sexes differently. She has been joined by fellow Democratic nominees Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan.

"The mere presence of three female justices on a previously male-dominated bench gives the plaintiffs' side a symbolic boost," said Barbara Perry, who studies the court at the University of Virginia's Miller Center for Public Affairs. Referring to the Wal-Mart greeter who is the lead plaintiff in the case, she added, "The more women on the bench, the more likely Betty Dukes' story of discrimination will resonate."

That said, Perry also noted that the court is not deciding whether Wal-Mart is guilty of discrimination. Instead, it will decide whether the small group of plaintiffs have satisfied federal class-action rules, allowing them to stand for co-workers nationwide who they say have suffered under common discriminatory practices. The class would include all women who have worked at Wal-Mart since December 1998.

A federal judge in San Francisco ruled that the suit could go forward. The plaintiffs' attorney, Brad Seligman, a class-action specialist at the Impact Fund, a tiny public-interest law firm in Berkeley, Calif., assembled statistics showing that women constitute 80 percent of hourly Wal-Mart workers but hold only a third of managerial jobs. The percentage decreases on each step up the company hierarchy.

There were allegations of pay disparities between men and women; a lack of job postings, keeping women from career advancement; and a generally hostile work environment for women. Affidavits from more than 100 female workers brought stories of women being called "Janey Qs" and being told that men were paid more because they had families to support, as well as a worker's complaint that her male manager told her to "doll up."

Seligman said that although pay and promotion decisions are made at the local level, they reflect an attitude from the top.

"Wal-Mart has a very in-depth training program, very careful corporate oversight, a strong corporate culture, all designed to ensure a uniformity in decision making," he said in a recent interview.

Wal-Mart responds in its brief to the court that because the plaintiffs cannot prove the company has a doctrine of discrimination - indeed, it has a specific policy of nondiscrimination - "plaintiffs premised their motion on statistics, sociology, and anecdotes."

At the time of the district judge's decision in 2004, the company's retail operation included seven divisions, 41 regions, 3,400 stories and more than 1 million employees.

"The named plaintiffs' claims cannot conceivably be typical of the claims of the strangers they seek to represent," Wal-Mart said.

The case languished for years at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit in San Francisco before a panel upheld the judge's decision. The full court agreed in a 6 to 5 decision, although the dissenters practically urged the Supreme Court to take up the issue.

The millions of women who have worked at Wal-Mart, Circuit Chief Judge Alex Kozinski wrote, "have little in common but their sex and this lawsuit."

The company contends that the plaintiffs' goals of back pay, punitive damages and a change in the company's allegedly discriminatory practices run counter to the court's past decisions on class certification.

Wal-Mart's attorney in the case, Los Angeles lawyer Theodore J. Boutrous Jr., said the company is not arguing that the size of the potential class - which Seligman estimates would be at least 1 million women - renders it unworthy of certification.

"But the size of the class does really magnify the deeper problems of the case," he said in an interview. Seligman said a class-action suit is the only way to help women who have encountered discrimination. The average difference in annual pay between male and female workers, he said, was a little more than $1,000.

"These are not cases they could possibly find counsel to litigate, even if they were willing to go up against Wal-Mart," he said.

Civil rights and public-interest groups say the case is important because of the message it would send about the avenues available to employees at big companies. Paul Bland, a senior lawyer at Public Justice, said Wal-Mart is pushing a message that it is "too big to sue."

By agreeing, he said, the justices would be saying, "As long as you discriminate against enough people, courts can't get involved."

But Robin Conrad of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said a decision upholding the plaintiffs would turn even frivolous class-action suits into "bet-the-company propositions" for employers who would not want to risk the potential losses at trial.

"If this class action gets certified, it's open season for all class actions to be certified," not just for discrimination claims but also for product liability and financial services, she said.

http://www.washingtonpost.com

WP20110328walmart28      

Document WP00000020110328e73s0000d



NEWS
Women take case against Wal-Mart to highest court ; Company accused of demeaning and denying female employees

Joan Biskupic      
1,584 words
28 March 2011
USA Today
USAT
FINAL
A.5
English
© 2011 USA Today.    Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.      All Rights Reserved.        

WASHINGTON -- The women from Wal-Mart have told their stories of discrimination many times in the past decade. They have described how male workers with less seniority were promoted and paid more. They have talked of a culture of female stereotyping, of being called "Janie Qs" and told to wear cosmetics and "doll up."

Now their most important audience to date will be listening. Tuesday, the Supreme Court will hear arguments in their gigantic class-action lawsuit against the nation's largest private employer. They are newly energized in making sure their voices are heard as they contend women nationwide were denied promotions and better pay in a highly centralized corporate culture rife with stereotypes that demean women.

"With Wal-Mart being as big as they are, they could easily sweep us under the rug," says Christine Kwapnoski, one of six named plaintiffs behind what would be the largest employment class-action case in history -- if the court allows them to proceed as a group.

"I like that we get this jump-started every time" the case moves to a new court, says Kwapnoski, 46, who works in a Concord, Calif., Sam's Club, a Wal-Mart subsidiary.

Lawyer Theodore Boutrous, who will argue the case for Wal-Mart, counters that the women's experiences do not reflect those of most females at Wal-Mart. He says the named plaintiffs cannot represent potentially millions of women in thousands of different stores supervised by tens of thousands of different managers. Boutrous refers to a "kaleidoscope of claims, defenses, issues, locales, events and individuals" that he will tell the justices simply cannot be folded into a single class-action case.

Class-action suits enable one or more persons to sue as representatives of a group with similar interests. For workers with relatively small wage losses or little ability to come forward on their own, such a lawsuit provides a way to challenge a big company.

Corporations such as Wal-Mart emphasize that class-actions and the potential for billion-dollar judgments are limited by rules governing who can join together. Wal-Mart and its corporate supporters say the class in this case is too disparate and lacks common grievances. Some of the nation's largest businesses, including Del Monte Foods and General Electric, and the most prominent civil rights organizations, including the NAACP and National Women's Law Center, have lined up on opposite sides of a case that has become one of the most watched of the term.

The question at this point is not whether Wal-Martdiscriminated against the women, but whether this group of female workers should ever have been certified to bring a class-action lawsuit. Lower U.S. appeals courts have used varying standards for class certification, and high-court resolution of the Wal-Mart battle could clarify the national ground rules for workers or consumers who try to challenge practices at big companies.

In addition, the case tests the Supreme Court's pro-business bent. "Powerful companies such as Wal-Mart have consistently enjoyed a home field advantage" at the court under Chief Justice John Roberts, asserts the liberal Alliance for Justice in a new report stressing the stakes in the Wal-Mart dispute for women who have traditionally earned less than men.

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which has filed a brief siding with Wal-Mart, warns that if this class action is allowed, the precedent "would bury American businesses in abusive class-action lawsuits to the detriment of consumers, the U.S. economy and the judicial system itself."

Roots in Civil Rights Act

The Wal-Mart lawsuit traces to 2001, when the Berkeley, Calif.- based Impact Fund and other civil rights lawyers filed the class action based on Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which forbids discrimination on the job.

They alleged that women were paid less than men in comparable positions, even though the women got better performance reviews and had more seniority. They cited statistics about low rank and pay of Wal-Mart female workers nationwide and they provided anecdotal stories.

Lead attorneys for the women -- Brad Seligman of the Impact Fund and Joseph Sellers, a longtime civil rights lawyer who will argue before the justices -- highlight on the first page of their brief that Wal-Mart executives referred to women as "Janie Qs" and approved of holding business meetings at Hooters restaurants, where the waitresses wear tight, skimpy clothing.

They tie their case to statistical data, including this powerful assertion: "While women comprise over 80% of hourly supervisors, they hold only one-third of store management jobs and their ranks steadily diminish at each successive step in the management hierarchy."

They say statistics show that women's pay lags that of men in every major job in each of the company's 41 regions. (Wal-Mart officials dispute those statistics and say women in 2001, when the case was brought, were far more represented in management than the plaintiffs claim.)

Kwapnoski, who has worked at Wal-Mart subsidiary Sam's Clubs since 1986 in Missouri and California, says women rarely were alerted to opportunities for training or advancement. She said a boss told her a male co-worker received a large raise because he had a family to support. This was while Kwapnoski, a divorcee, was raising two small children on her own.

She said she decided to join the challenge to the company when she realized "I was training men to take the positions I had asked about." In 2000, after 14 years on the job, she said she was paid about the same as a man with half her tenure.

The following year, in 2001, when she began working on a dock that received shipments, the boss "told me to 'doll up,' to wear some makeup and to dress a little better."

Betty Dukes, a greeter in a Pittsburg, Calif., store, whose name leads the group of plaintiffs in Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes, has complained about a dearth of information for workers on training and promotion opportunities. She said she became frustrated by constantly seeing positions filled without ever being posted. Wal- Mart lawyers say in court documents that such stories are not the common experience of female workers and that the company's anti- discrimination policy "is clear and taken extremely seriously."

Gisel Ruiz, in charge of Wal-Mart human resources, said bosses who show bias are subject to sanction or firing.

Lawyer Boutrous said the anecdotes related by Kwapnoski and the others fail to demonstrate any systematic bias. Workers alleging discrimination in a class action, he says, "bear the burden of showing both individual instances of actionable discrimination and a companywide pattern or practice of discrimination." There are about 3,400 Wal-Mart stores nationwide. He says statistics from the women's lawyers are based on alleged ad hoc discrimination by local managers and wrongly extended to a national picture. And he insists more than 90% of stores have no statistically significant pay rate differences between men and women.

Policies and practices

In 2004, a U.S. district judge certified a class covering all women who worked for Wal-Mart after Dec. 26, 1998. He said the lead women had shown disparities in pay and promotions arising from policies that the women alleged had discriminated in a common way. The 9th Circuit upheld that decision on a 6-5 vote.

The appeals court dissenters said the plaintiffs should not have won certification without "significant proof that an employer operated under a general policy of discrimination." (The majority had said a showing of a common policy alleged, not proven, to be discriminatory was sufficient.)

The appeals court estimated the class at 500,000 workers; Wal- Mart says it could sweep in 1.5 million employees.

Ruiz, who holds the title of executive vice president of people for Wal-Mart, began working for the company in 1992. She says the district court judge's certification order is so sweeping it would include her -- even though her experience is completely at odds with the women who've brought the case.

Asked about the demeaning comments documented in the women's filings, along with the Hooters meetings, Ruiz noted that the company has 1.4 million employees and that some bosses may have gone astray.

Of the claim of management meetings at Hooters, Boutrous said, "That would be insane if that was the policy of the company."

TEXT OF INFO BOX BEGINS HERE

Taking sides on the issue

Tuesday's case of Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes offers the Supreme Court its most significant employment rights case of the term. Each side has drawn more than a dozen "friend of the court" briefs. Notably absent is the U.S. government, which had sided with the women alleging bias when the case was in the lower court and often weighs in on Supreme Court cases.

Among groups siding with Wal-Mart:

*Chamber of Commerce of the United States

*Costco Wholesale

*Intel

*Society for Human Resource Management and HR Policy Association

Among groups siding with the women alleging bias:

*Consumers Union of the United States

*Institute for Women's Policy Research

*NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund

*National Employment Lawyers Association

Source: U.S. Supreme Court

PHOTO, B/W, Martin E. Klimek for USA TODAY; PHOTO, B/W, Ben Margot, AP      

Document USAT000020110328e73s0000d

Interview: Betty Dukes, Jocelyn Larkin and Gisel Ruiz speak about job    discrimination  lawsuit against Walmart

1,585 words
28 March 2011
NBC News: Today
TODA
English
(c) Copyright 2011, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.        

MATT LAUER, co-host:

The US Supreme Court this week takes up the largest job discrimination case in American history. More than a million women claim that Walmartdiscriminated against them in pay and promotions. In a moment we'll have an exclusive live interview with the lead plaintiff in the case. But first, NBC's justice correspondent Pete Williams has details for us.

Pete, good morning.

PETE WILLIAMS reporting:

Matt, good morning to you. This is a huge case, the largest class action discrimination suit ever against the nation's biggest retailer. But the Supreme Court will not be deciding who's right; instead, it will decide if this case can go to trial, or if lumping so many complaints together makes it impossible for Walmart to defend itself.

For 25 years Christine Kwapnoski has worked at a Northern California Sam's Club, owned by Walmart. She says she once asked why a male co-worker got a big raise and she didn't.

Ms. CHRISTINE KWAPNOSKI (Sam's Club Employee): I was told that he had a family to support. And at that time I also had a family to support. You know, I'm a single mom of two, and they were much smaller at that time. But, you know, I still had to feed them and clothe them and everything else.

WILLIAMS: She and other women, current and former Walmart employees, are suing. They claim the company gives better pay and bigger promotions to the male employees. Their class action lawsuit now potentially covers more than one and a half million women. Walmart denies that it tolerates any sex discrimination.

Ms. GISEL RUIZ (Executive Vice President, Walmart): Out in the stores, in the field, even in the home office, you get paid based on your performance. Eighty percent of our department manager work force are made up of women, and department managers play a very important role in our organization.

WILLIAMS: And the company says the lawsuit is so massive, it's impossible to sort out the legal claims in any fair way.

Mr. TED BOUTROUS (Attorney for Walmart): It's not just the size of the class, it's the nature of the claims here, that the plaintiffs tried to put every single claim into one big class, every person, every state, every store.

WILLIAMS: But the lawyer for Christine Kwapnoski and the other women says they'd never get into court if they had to sue for back pay one by one.

Mr. JOSEPH SELLERS (Attorney for Women Suing Walmart): The average loss per woman in this case is about $1100 per woman per year. That's not enough to attract any lawyer in this country today.

WILLIAMS: But several of the nation's biggest employers--including GE, part owner of NBC--urged the court to put limits on class action lawsuits, which they claim have become abusive. Matt:

LAUER: Pete Williams. Pete, thank you very much.

Betty Dukes is the lead plaintiff named in the lawsuit. Jocelyn Larkin is one of the lawyers representing Betty and the rest of the women in the case. And Gisel Ruiz is an executive vice president for Walmart responsible for human resources.

Ladies, good morning to all of you.

Ms. JOCELYN LARKIN (Attorney for Women Suing Walmart): Good morning.

Ms. BETTY DUKES (Lead Plaintiff in Walmart Lawsuit): Good morning.

LAUER: Betty, let me start with you.

Ms. RUIZ: Good morning. Good morning, Matt.

LAUER: Good morning. You started working for Walmart back in 1994. You say you were passed over for promotions on several occasions. What led you to believe this was something more than job performance; that this, in fact, might be companywide discrimination?

Ms. DUKES: Well, as far as companywide, at the time I wouldn't be able to say that. But I did notice in my store--I've only worked in one store in my 16 1/2 year experience with Walmart, and I did notice in my store as far back as the end of the 1900s that there was a problem with women being promoted and going forth into management in the store.

LAUER: Well, your name is now attached to this suit. It has become much larger than you. And potentially, if the Supreme Court rules in favor with the plaintiffs here, over a million women might be involved in this suit. Do you think all of those women were discriminated against by Walmart, or is it important to separate individual cases here?

Ms. DUKES: Well, if we were to do individual cases, we as a--we as a group of women wouldn't have a possible chance to litigate our circumstances. Economically, we don't have the resources individually is to take on Walmart and go through all of the legal ramification that we would be facing. We've been out now almost 10 years with this case. I would not have survived more than the first year on my own.

LAUER: Right.

Jocelyn, though, I mean, you know, we're talking potentially 1.5 million women that could be involved in this. I mean, yes, let's say there are a lot of those women who perhaps were discriminated against. But aren't there going to be a lot of women in that case who simply were not? And is that fair to Walmart?

Ms. LARKIN: The way it would work, Matt, is that first we would have a trial to determine if Walmart had a policy of discriminating against its female employees with respect to pay and promotion. If we won, then the could would go about determining which of the women in the company have suffered actual harm as a result of those policies. So it's not the case that--of 1.5 million women would necessarily recover, but what we would determine is whether, in fact, Walmart has had such a policy in practice.

LAUER: Right.

Ms. LARKIN: And we would get the court to put in place practices that would change those practices forever.

LAUER: Let me bring Gisel in here. Obviously, so if it's all about policies here, Gisel, I mean, how do you feel about the policies that were in place at Walmart at the time this suit was filed?

Ms. RUIZ: Walmart has had strong policies against discrimination in place long before the lawsuit was filed. You know, I started with the company in 1992 as a management trainee in Madera, California, and I remember learning about those policies from my store manager. And then over the course of the years, as I've grown with the company, then it became my responsibility to teach those policies. We also have a long history of providing advancement opportunities at Walmart for women. You know, I dreamed of becoming a store manager in four years when I was a trainee.

LAUER: Well...

Ms. RUIZ: Go ahead.

LAUER: Let me ask you this. Going back to the policies, did Walmart dramatically change its policies after this lawsuit was filed?

Ms. RUIZ: Mm-hmm. The policies have been in place long before the lawsuit was filed. You know, like many other companies over the years, those policies have continued to change and have continued to become better and better. It's not like other companies where...

LAUER: But did you change in this case because there was a flaw in them, and that--that perhaps led to this lawsuit?

Ms. RUIZ: No. The policies have been in place for a long time, they're strong against discrimination. And the policies continue to evolve as our work force evolves, as the work--excuse me--workplace evolves, as well.

LAUER: Betty, I think it might surprise some people to learn that you still work at Walmart. You're a greeter. Do you think, A, that the policies have changed toward women after this lawsuit was filed? And B, how has the company treated you considering you are the lead plaintiff in this case that's now headed to the Supreme Court?

Ms. DUKES: Well, in regards to your first question, absolutely the company has changed their policies tremendously since we filed our lawsuit back in 2001. In my store there was no known avenue for womens to advance themselves. (Unintelligible)...we had a no--basically a no posting situation. We didn't have no inside information as to how we could advance ourselves.

LAUER: Right.

Ms. DUKES: But that has changed greatly since we filed our suit over 10 years ago.

LAUER: And quickly, how's the company treating you?

Ms. DUKES: I'm being treated respectfully. I'm positive that because I have such media presence and I have such a great legal representation, that on my own I doubt if I would be treated as fairly as I have been.

LAUER: All right. And, Gisel, I'm going to give you the last word because it's somewhat two against one here. Are you confident that Walmart can prevail in the Supreme Court?

Ms. RUIZ: You know, we feel like we have strong arguments in this case, and we look forward to presenting them in front of the court tomorrow.

LAUER: Gisel Ruiz, Jocelyn Larkin, Betty Dukes, thank you, ladies. We'll follow this story. We appreciate your time this morning.

Ms. DUKES: Thank you.

Ms. LARKIN: Thank you.

Ms. RUIZ: Thank you.

Document TODA000020110328e73s0000g



Guardian International Pages
Walmart sex    discrimination  case will redefine US law, say experts

Dominic Rushe, New York      
442 words
28 March 2011
The Guardian
GRDN
18
English
© Copyright 2011.    The Guardian.    All rights reserved.      

A 60-year-old Walmart employee will come up against the world's biggest retailer this week in another round of the largest sex discrimination case in history.

In a case lawyers say will redefine discrimination law in the US, the supreme court will tomorrow begin hearing arguments on why Betty Dukes and more than a million women who have worked for Walmart since December 1998 should be able to sue the retailer in a class action.

Walmart is appealing against a decision to let the case proceed, after a judge said Dukes's lawyers had presented "proof of a corporate policy of discrimination".

Walmart, America's largest private employer, says the case threatens to cost it billions of dollars. It denies wrongdoing and says the accusations are too diverse to be tried en masse. Papers in support of Walmart have been filed by 20 firms including General Electric and Microsoft.

Dukes filed a sex discrimination suit in 2000 claiming she had been denied the training needed for promotion. The civil rights lawyer Brad Seligman, representing her, claims Walmart systematically discriminated against female employees, who were under-represented in management positions and paid less than men.

Melissa Hart, director of the Byron R White centre for the study of American constitutional law at the University of Colorado, said: "It's been decades since we have had the courts examine a case as important as this." Hart said she expected a ruling by June and a loss would "make it increasingly difficult for women to challenge discrimination in the workplace".

If the courts support Dukes, lawyers expect more discrimination class actions to be brought on behalf of women and minorities. A win for Walmart would make it harder to argue that employees with different jobs in different stores have enough in common to be a class.

Dukes started working at the Pittsburg branch in California in 1994 as a part-time cashier for $5 an hour. She was promoted to customer service manager but says her path to further advancement was blocked. When she complained, arguments ensued and she was demoted. She still works for the firm, earning just over $15 an hour.

Seligman says the representation of women drops steadily further up the firm. Figures from 2001 show it took women an average of 4.38 years to be promoted to assistant manager after being hired, compared with 2.86 years for men.

Captions:

Betty Dukes first filed a suit against Walmart in 2000, saying she was denied the training she needed to be promoted

Document GRDN000020110328e73s0001i

Search Summary

 All of these words

     At least one of these words
discrimination discriminatory discriminate discriminates discriminated discriminating harassment
     None of these words

     This exact phrase

     Date
03/15/2011 to 05/14/2011
     Source
All Sources
     Author
All Authors
     Company
Walmart Inc
     Subject
All Subjects
     Industry
All Industries
     Region
All Regions
     Language
English
     Results Found
230
     Timestamp
16 June 2023 10:22 AM
    
