 
•	Wal-Mart v. Dukes shakes up employment class actions
•	ERISA Claim Based on Wal-Mart Gender Discrimination Dismissed
•	ERISA Claim Based on Wal-Mart Gender Discrimination Dismissed
•	Occupy Hartford Lists Grievances Against Walmart In Surprise Protest
•	Congress Gridlocked Over Extending Payroll Tax Cut Bill; Controversial Newsletters Written in Ron Paul's Name Cause Stir; Investigation...
•	Payroll Tax Battle Turns Ugly; Wendy's On Track To Unseat Burger King As #2; Wal-Mart Pulls Formula After Death; Investigation Continues ...
•	Deadly Bombing Wave In Baghdad; Can Petraeus Save Iraq Again?; GOP Walks Out On Tax Fight; Eight Soldiers Charged In Private's Death; Wal-Ma...
•	Local in brief
•	Clinic loses suit naming Wal-Mart.(Health Care)
•	FINRA Proposal On Predispute Agreements To Arbitrate Whistleblower Claims
•	Jammu sidelined again, Ramesh announces one lakh jobs to Kashmiri youth
•	Don't Suspect, Harass Kashmiris: Omar Tells CMs
•	Wal-Mart to Pay $275,000 to Former Employee Fired after Cancer Surgery
•	EEOC Sues Wal-Mart for Disability Discrimination and Retaliation
•	EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION SUES WAL-MART FOR DISABILITY DISCRIMINATION AND RETALIATION
•	WSJ BLOG/India Real Time: I Dreamed of a Lokpal and It Was Scary
•	Best (and worst) of 2011; EMPLOYMENT
•	Walmart’s insider probe for corruption
•	Wal-Mart to conduct internal FCPA probe
•	Sam's Club, Salvation Army and Off the Field Partner on Dream Drive Campaign
•	Advocates: Companies can't support black consumers and those pushing restrictive voting laws
•	Advocates: Companies can't support black consumers and those pushing restrictive voting laws
•	Sam's Club® and The Salvation Army Make Holiday Dreams Come True for Families in Need with Fifth Annual Dream Drive Campaign
•	CIVIL ACTIONS
•	PUBLIC FORUM
•	Black Friday at Walden Galleria well-policed
•	EEOC Sues Wal-Mart for Refusal to Allow Handicap Parking
•	Wal-Mart's fair lending impact: a lack of claim "commonality" has raised the class-action bar, for now.(LEGAL ISSUES)
•	IN RE WELLS FARGO MORTGAGE LENDING DISCRIMINATION LITIGATION
•	No Class: Tougher Certification Standards In Environmental Mass-Tort Cases
•	Save money. Live Better. Sort of. ; By Katharine Whittemore
•	Does 'Dukes' Require Full 'Daubert' Scrutiny at Class Certification?
•	Shoppers Pounce on Black Friday Deals; GOP Candidates Back on the Trail; "Last Chance" Protests in Cairo; "Last Chance" Protests in Cairo...
•	Supreme Court's Landmark Wal-Mart v. Dukes Ruling And Its Impact On Employment Class Actions
•	Uphill Battle
•	CIVIL ACTIONS; WASHINGTON
•	Racial Discrimination Action Against Wal-Mart Trial Date Set: Pre-Trial Testimony Shows Wal-Mart Spied on African-Americans at In-Store Clinic, Says Maumelle Medical Clinics CEO Jerry Poole
•	Racial Discrimination Action Against Wal-Mart Trial Date Set: Pre-Trial Testimony Shows Wal-Mart Spied on African-Americans at In-Store Clinic, Says Maumelle Medical Clinics CEO Jerry Poole
•	Maumelle Medical Clinics: Racial Discrimination Action Against Wal-Mart Trial Date Set: Pre-Trial Testimony Shows Wal-Mart Spied on African-Americans at in-Store Clinic, Says Maumelle Medical Clinics' CEO Jerry Poole
•	FDI in retail only if players procure 30% stuff from small Indian units, says new clause



Wal-Mart v. Dukes shakes up employment class actions

735 words
9 January 2012
06:04 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2012 Reuters Limited      

 * Landmark case cited 260 times since June

 * Served as deterrent to plaintiffs' bar

 * Lawyers explore theories to circumvent ruling 

 By Andrew Longstreth

 Jan 9 (Reuters) - The Supreme Court's decision in Wal-Mart v. Dukes, heralded last term as a game-changer in employment class actions, has lived up to the hype. 

 Since the Court issued the Dukes decision in June, it has been cited by lower courts 260 times, according to a report issued on Monday by law firm Seyfarth Shaw. In comparison, the equally influential case, AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion, was cited just 215 times over the same period.

 "There's B.D., Before Dukes, and A.D., After Dukes," said Gerald Maatman, Jr., a partner at Seyfarth Shaw, who is the editor of the firm's "Annual Workplace Class Action Litigation Report. "It was a watershed event."

 In its opinion, the Supreme Court addressed whether a class of up to 1.5 million current and former female Wal-Mart employees could sue the giant retailer collectively. The proposed class of women, whose positions at the company varied widely, claimed they were paid less than men and were unfairly passed up for promotions. But the Court ruled the group of women could not sue collectively because they did not have enough in common.

 A court's decision to allow a group to sue collectively - a process known as class certification - is critical in any class action. If a court certifies a large class, it can put pressure on a defendant to settle claims because of the potential losses.

 Since the Dukes decision, defendants in a variety of class actions have flooded courts with motions challenging the certification of large classes of plaintiffs. In employment disputes, the motions have been raised in cases alleging discrimination and violation of labor laws. The defendants have argued that claims made by plaintiffs lacked commonality. Some defendants have also used the ruling as a tool to have class claims dismissed even before the issue of class certification is addressed. 

 In November, for example, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit affirmed the dismissal of a class action against Universal Health Card, LLC and Coverdell & Company, Inc. The case alleged the companies violated the consumer-protection laws of many states through deceptive advertorials. But the court held the variation in the claims and the different state laws involved were "neither efficient nor workable" under class action rules. It was the first time since the Dukes ruling that a federal circuit addressed the propriety of filing a motion to dismiss class claims at the initial pleading stage, according to the Seyfarth report. 

 The plaintiffs' bar is trying to come up with new theories to circumvent Dukes. The National Employment Lawyers Association, for example, has created a task force to lend legal help to plaintiffs' lawyers forced to respond to a Dukes motion.

 One new approach may be filing more, smaller cases on the theory they have a better chance passing class certification rulings, according to Maatman. Plaintiffs in the Wal-Mart case have filed two smaller class actions following the Supreme Court's decision.

 Clearly the case is having a psychological effect on lawyers who bring discrimination class actions, said David Sanford of Sanford Wittels & Heisler, a law firm that specializes in representing employees in employment disputes.

 "When you take on a case you're about to embark on a very expensive, very time consuming and extremely risky project," said Sanford. "People are looking at this twice now."

 Plaintiffs' lawyers appear to be more sanguine about the prospect of obtaining class certification in cases alleging violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act - the other type of employment case affected by the Dukes decision, says Matthew Koski, an attorney fellow with The Employee Rights Advocacy Institute for Law & Policy, an arm of NELA.

 Those kinds of actions, which are often about unpaid wages as a result of employers misclassifying employees, are brought under a different statute than workplace discrimination cases and do not require plaintiffs to show they were intentionally harmed by defendants. But Koski acknowledges that the full impact of the Dukes decision has yet to be understood.

 "There's a certain nervous curiosity about how this is going to play out," Koski added.

 (Editing by Andre Grenon)

WALMART/STUDY      

Document LBA0000020120110e81a0000a

ERISA Claim Based on Wal-Mart Gender    Discrimination  Dismissed

Rebecca Moore      
439 words
1 January 2012
Plan Sponsor
PLNSPR
English
© 2012. Asset International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

The U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California said that because Diana Alexander-Jones’ allegations are entirely dependent on a finding of discrimination and related denial of contributions that has not yet, and might never, happen, the case is not ripe.   

In the footsteps of Dukes v Wal-Mart, which alleges widespread gender discrimination at Wal-Mart stores, Alexander-Jones filed suit alleging that “the amounts Wal-Mart contributed [to the Plan] were materially less than what was truly owed to Plan participants, because Wal-Mart calculated its Company contributions based on base wages that were suppressed due to the Company’s rampant gender discrimination.”   

According to the court’s opinion, the complaint explicitly references the Dukes v. Wal-Mart case, stating that “[c]urrently, female workers at Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club are pursuing a class action lawsuit in this Court… that charges that Wal-Martdiscriminates against female employees nationwide. . . .” It adds that “[o]n June 24, 2004, this Court certified a national class of female employees who worked for the retail stores since December 26, 1998,” and that “[o]n April 26, 2010, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals largely affirmed the district court’s class certification ruling.”  

Alexander-Jones argued that the losses to retirement plan accounts have already occurred, and that her “ERISA claims do not require prior judicial resolution of [her] discrimination claims in order to be considered ripe.”  

The district court disagreed, noting that Alexander-Jones brings no Title VII claims in the present case, nor is she a plaintiff or a class member in any other cases alleging Title VII claims. Although she was a class member in Dukes, that case has been reconfigured and is now only being pursued on behalf of female employees employed in California (see Dukes v. Wal-Mart CA Plaintiffs Refile Bias Case). Alexander-Jones lives in Pennsylvania, and is no longer a class member in Dukes.   

Even if Alexander-Jones filed a lawsuit with discrimination claims, the court said, that is only a first step. The court said her ERISA claims depend upon a specific determination that her wages were suppressed, and only once that happens and Alexander-Jones is awarded lost wages, are the plan’s fiduciaries obligated to make specific contributions to the plan on her behalf.   

Under the plan, employer contributions are to be allocated based on compensation actually paid, not compensation “earned” or “owed,” the court stated.  

The opinion in Alexander-Jones v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. et al., No. C 10-03005 CRB is here. 

Document PLNSPR0020120322e811000dn

ERISA Claim Based on Wal-Mart Gender    Discrimination  Dismissed

Rebecca Moore      
445 words
1 January 2012
Plan Adviser
PLNADV
English
© 2012. Asset International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

The U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California said that because Diana Alexander-Jones’ allegations are entirely dependent on a finding of discrimination and a related denial of contributions that have not yet, and might never, happen, the case is not ripe. The court dismissed the case.   In the footsteps of Dukes v Wal-Mart, which alleges widespread gender discrimination at Wal-Mart stores, Alexander-Jones filed suit alleging that “the amounts Wal-Mart contributed [to the Plan] were materially less than what was truly owed to Plan participants, because Wal-Mart calculated its Company contributions based on base wages that were suppressed due to the Company’s rampant gender discrimination.”   

 According to the court’s opinion, the complaint explicitly references the Dukes v. Wal-Mart case, stating that “[c]urrently, female workers at Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club are pursuing a class action lawsuit in this Court… that charges that Wal-Martdiscriminates against female employees nationwide. . . .” It adds that “[o]n June 24, 2004, this Court certified a national class of female employees who worked for the retail stores since December 26, 1998,” and that “[o]n April 26, 2010, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals largely affirmed the district court’s class certification ruling.”  

 Alexander-Jones argued that the losses to retirement plan accounts have already occurred, and that her “ERISA claims do not require prior judicial resolution of [her] discrimination claims in order to be considered ripe.”  

 The district court disagreed, noting that Alexander-Jones brings no Title VII claims in the present case, nor is she a plaintiff or a class member in any other cases alleging Title VII claims. Although she was a class member in Dukes, that case has been reconfigured and is now only being pursued on behalf of female employees employed in California (see Dukes v. Wal-Mart CA Plaintiffs Refile Bias Case). Alexander-Jones lives in Pennsylvania, and is no longer a class member in Dukes.   

 Even if Alexander-Jones filed a lawsuit with discrimination claims, the court said, that is only a first step. The court said her ERISA claims depend upon a specific determination that her wages were suppressed, and only once that happens and Alexander-Jones is awarded lost wages, are the plan’s fiduciaries obligated to make specific contributions to the plan on her behalf.   

 Under the plan, employer contributions are to be allocated based on compensation actually paid, not compensation “earned” or “owed,” the court stated.  

 The opinion in Alexander-Jones v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. et al., No. C 10-03005 CRB is here. 

Document PLNADV0020120322e81100074

Occupy Hartford Lists Grievances Against Walmart In Surprise Protest

By Hillary Federico, The Hartford Courant, Conn.      
McClatchy-Tribune Regional News      
265 words
31 December 2011
The Hartford Courant (MCT)
KRTHC
English
Distributed by McClatchy - Tribune Information Services.      

Dec. 31--HARTFORD -- A group of demonstrators from the Occupy Hartford group staged a surprise protest at a city Walmart Friday night, reciting for customers reasons why they should not support the business.

About 20 protestors took part in the demonstration, posing as shoppers at the Flatbush Avenue store.

Rebecca Burton, one of the event organizers, said occupiers suddenly began an Occupy-style mic check, a method of repetition which allows activists to airing their grievances.

"Attention Walmart shoppers," the mic check began, "We know you're here for prices, not politics."

Protestors then began to list criticisms of the company starting with the difference in pay between Walmart's Chief Executive Officer and an average associate. It also named the various lawsuits and accusations involving unfair wages and hours, racial profiling, sexual discrimination, and environmental destruction.

"We know shoppers are looking to get more with their limited funds, but Walmart's low prices actually come at a very high price," Burton said in a release on the organization's website. "Not only does Walmart shut down small business competitors, but also their own store employees are more likely to be living below the poverty level, and often depend on state resources, including Medicaid.

Walmart is one of the largest multinational retailer corporations in the world.

-----

___

(c)2011 The Hartford Courant (Hartford, Conn.)

Visit The Hartford Courant (Hartford, Conn.) at www.courant.com

Distributed by MCT Information Services

Copyright (c) 2011, The Hartford Courant, Conn.

Document KRTHC00020111231e7cv0008d

News; Domestic
Congress Gridlocked Over Extending Payroll Tax Cut Bill; Controversial Newsletters Written in Ron Paul's Name Cause Stir; Investigation Continues into Death of Florida A&M Drum Major; Actor Kenneth Branagh Interviewed; Deadly Bombing Wave In Baghdad; Wal-Mart Pulls Baby Formula After Death; Eight Soldiers Charged In Private's Death; GOP Walks Out On Tax Fight; "We've Got To Get This Resolved"; Interview with Senators Dick Durbin and John McCain; Dreaming of a White House Christmas

Ali Velshi, Christine Romans, Barbara Starr, Kate Bolduan, Mohammed Jamjoon, Reynolds Wolf, George Howell      
10,668 words
22 December 2011
CNN: American Morning
CNLM
English
© 2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. All rights reserved. Prepared by CQ Transcriptions, LLC.      

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR (voice-over): The war after the war. A bloody morning in Baghdad. Explosion after explosion. New fears that it could call come apart now that U.S. troops are gone.

ALI VELSHI, CNN ANCHOR (voice-over): The U.S. claims self- defense in a deadly airstrike in Afghanistan. Twenty-four Pakistani troops were killed. The defense department also admitting mistakes were made.

ROMANS: Wal-Mart pulling a brand of baby formula after a baby's sudden death caused by a rare bacteria. The latest on that investigation.

GLORIA BORGER, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL ANALYST: These things are pretty incendiary, you know --

REP. RON PAUL, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Because of people like you.

VELSHI: And Ron Paul getting defensive again about racist "Newsletters" written in his name in the past. Questions coming up again as he rises in the polls on this AMERICAN MORNING.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ROMANS: Good morning, everybody. It's Thursday, December 2nd. Welcome to AMERICAN MORNING. Good morning, Ali.

VELSHI: Good morning.

A lot of news this morning. New fears it could all unravel in Iraq this morning. A wave of coordinated deadly blasts rocking Baghdad overnight. Police say four car bombs and nine roadside bombs went off within two hours of each other, killing at least 63 people and wounding over 200. The death toll has been rising overnight. This coming just a few days after the last U.S. troops left Iraq. It is the worst violence to hit the country since a political crisis erupted between Iraq Sunni and Shiite factions. Arwa Damon live for us in Baghdad this morning. Arwa, give us some perspective. What does this mean? Is there something particular about this happening after the U.S. troops have left?

ARWA DAMON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: well, you know, Ali, the Americans were actually warning there would be some sort of violence that would increase as they were leaving, and especially after they were leaving so the insurgency would remind everyone they are present and active. But the violence we saw taking place this morning coupled with the country's political crisis most certainly ended up creating a worst-case scenario, a nightmare for the Iraqi population.

These explosion actually took place in the morning, 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m., right during rush hour. There were 16 explosions in total according to the most recent police report, nine of those were car bombs hitting marketplaces in the intersections. One of the explosions happening outside of school as the children were arriving.

Many people, Ali, had been warning the U.S. that perhaps this withdrawal was premature, that the country need their help. Many politicians warning the government would in fact unravel despite the rosy image that the U.S. administration continued to paint. But few people thought it would unravel this fast or have this devastating of an impact.

VELSHI: Arwa, thank you very much.

ROMANS: Also new developments this morning in the deadly attack along the Afghan border that has further strained U.S. relations with Pakistan. According to an investigation by the Defense Department, U.S. troops acted in self-defense when they attacked and killed 24 Pakistani troops, though the U.S. does now admit mistakes were made. Our Barbara Starr follows this for us live from the Pentagon. Good morning, Barbara.

BARBARA STARR, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Christine. The U.S. claim of self-defense really is the least of it, because 24 Pakistani troops died as a result of the U.S. bombing of that border post back on November 25th. The investigation is done. We expect a briefing here later this morning, but we know some of the results of that investigation. Self-defense because they thought they were being fired on by insurgents, but the U.S. taking very strong responsibility for what happened.

They are saying that there was inadequate coordination by U.S. and Pakistani military officials operating on this border region, that U.S. officials relied on inadequate and inaccurate mapping data when they asked the Pakistanis were there Pakistani troops where they wanted to bomb. It all resulted in a terrible misunderstanding about where the Pakistani troops were when the U.S. unleashed those bombs and that airstrike.

Nonetheless, the U.S. has massive responsibility for this because they are the ones that enacted the bombing. The question now, of course, is what happens next? The Pakistani-U.S. relationship remains very troubled over the entire incident.

ROMANS: It does. So what happens now? Does the president, does he apologize, personally apologize? Or does it end here?

STARR: I think what you just asked is the key question. In Pakistan there, has been quite a bit of discussion that President Obama should personally apologize to the Pakistani people for all of this. But that has political overtones, of course, here in the United States, where Republicans are saying the president apologizes for America, where many people criticized the U.S. relationship with Pakistan.

One thing that will happen next, U.S. military will look to see whether any U.S. military officials should be held accountable for this incident that went so terribly wrong. Christine?

ROMANS: Barbara Starr at the Pentagon, thank you.

VELSHI: Wal-Mart pulls a batch of baby formula after a baby's sudden death in Missouri. They retail giant recalled Enfamil newborn from stores nationwide as a precaution. But only those batches with the lot number ZP-1-K-7-G. This happened after a 10-day-old dies from a rare bacterial infection. Officials are also testing environmental factors, such as the state of the water that was used to make the formula.

The formula's maker Meade-Johnson nutrition says the batch tested negative for the bacteria before it was shipped. They released this statement -- "We are highly confident of the safety and quality of our products and the rigorous testing we put them through."

ROMANS: They say they want to talk, but talk is getting cheap and time running out. With just nine days and counting before the payroll tax cut expires there's no resolution in sight this morning. Take a look at what this could cost you. This is based on a $53,000 per year salary. It comes to an $83 per month salary. Add that up over a year, it's about $1,000. The president crashed the briefing room yesterday, Tuesday, and blasted Republicans for their handling of the issue.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: One of the House Republicans referred to what they are doing as "high stakes poker." He's right about the stakes, but this is not poker. This is not a game. This shouldn't be politics as usual.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ROMANS: Then he spent an afternoon on the phone with congressional leaders on both sides in both Houses yesterday, but looking at how Republicans and Democrats were acting, you wonder whether they got the message from the president to stop playing games, like hide and seek. The GOP walked out on the debate on the House floor and Democratic whip Steny Hoyer tried to introduce the two-month extension and got angry.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

REP. STENY HOYER, (D-MD) MINORITY WHIP: As you walk of the floor, Mr. Speaker, you are walking out, you're walking away, just as so many Republicans have walked away from middle class taxpayers, the unemployed, and very frankly as well from those who will be seeking medical assistance from their doctors, 48 million senior citizens.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ROMANS: To show their willingness to reach a deal, House Speaker John Boehner held a news conference from the negotiating table, basically saying the Senate will have to come to him.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

REP. JOHN BOEHNER, (R-OH) HOUSE SPEAKER: We're here. We're ready to work. We're looking for our counterparts to sit down with us so that we can do what the president, bipartisan leaders in the House and Senate all want, and that's to extend the payroll tax cut for one year.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ROMANS: Kate Bolduan is live in Washington with the latest. Still sounds like an awful lot of politics to me, Kate.

KATE BOLDUAN, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: An awful lot of politics and yesterday a lot of political theater playing out before us as well. There doesn't seem to be much work going on, to be quite honest, Christine.

We'll see Speaker Boehner again today, as you saw in the clip you just played. He's going to hold another media event with the eight House Republicans that he's appointed to this conference committee that he would like to see the House and Senate go to hash out their differences.

But the bottom line is neither side is backing down. And pressure is mounting, especially on House Republicans. You have the president calling again on the House to pass a two-month extension that the Senate approved last weekend, but in a phone call with the president yesterday, Speaker Boehner didn't appear to budge at all, instead asking the president to ask the top Democrat in the Senate Harry Reid to appoint negotiators to the conference committee.

So that is unlikely to happen before the January 2nd deadline for two reasons, both the politics and procedure to get that going. Senator Reid says he will not be reopening talks for a one- year deal to extend the payroll tax cut until the House passes the two-month extension.

ROMANS: We were talking to a CPA yesterday who was pulling his hair out this is not the kind of stuff you can do for two months or a year. They need some clarity of how companies and taxes are going to be next year, and they don't have any clarity, quite frustrating for a lot of people, rank and file people trying to run business. Kate Bolduan, thanks.

At the bottom hour, Senators Dick Durbin and John McCain will join us. Durbin says Speaker Boehner has lost control of the House. McCain wants House Republicans to get in line too. He says the battle is hurting his party and is unfair to the American people.

VELSHI: Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich going head to head in the polls and the podium. Both GOP frontrunners spoke to crowds in New Hampshire yesterday addressing a recent campaign ad from the Romney camp. The ad attacks Speaker Gingrich for his work at Freddie Mac. Gingrich calls it dishonest, but Romney suggests Gingrich is just melting under pressure. There were a lot of kitchen and heat analogies going on yesterday. Both men say they can take the heat.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MITT ROMNEY, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Speaker Gingrich has had a few less than generous things to say about me over the campaign. I'm a big boy. That's the nature of the campaign. And with regards to the heat associated with ads, you know, if you can't stand the relatively modest heat in the kitchen right now, wait until Obama's hell's kitchen shows up.

NEWT GINGRICH, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Look, I'll tell you what. He wants to test the heat, I'll meet him anywhere in Iowa next week, one-on-one, 90 minutes, no moderator. He wants to tie up the kitchen, I'll be glad to debate him anywhere. And we'll bring "The Washington Post" who will show that his ad is filled with lies and he can defend it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VELSHI: So whatever you think of these candidates. And while we're dealing with this whole Ron Paul not straightening up what happened 20 years ago in his writings, the one thing about Newt Gingrich, he loves to debate. Rick Perry says he doesn't do well. Newt Gingrich's response to anyone is come meet me, we'll debate one- on-one. That's what he puts out there.

ROMANS: With his surge in the polls, some things getting potentially ugly, as you mention, bubbling up from Ron Paul's past. And he is being hammered about questions by newsletters written under his name years ago. Here's an example of one of them, an article criticizing President Reagan for approving the creation of the federal Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. The newsletter written under Ron Paul's name complaining, quote, "We can thank him" -- Ronald Reagan -- "for our annual hate whitey day."

VELSHI: And having gone through them, this isn't the most incendiary of them. There are some things he says about people with AIDS, written under his name, not able to eat in restaurants with other people, blacks, calling them animals. It's pretty incendiary stuff.

ROMANS: These are newsletters went out, subscription, people paid for these. He became very bothered after our Gloria Borger brought it up to him. She asked him if he made money from the newsletters, and he bailed out. Take a look.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

RON PAUL, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It was published for 10 years. If that was one percent of the newsletter I made money off talking about gold stocks, I think are you really confused on that.

GLORIA BORGER, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST: Well, it's just a question -- it's legitimate. It's legitimate. These things are pretty incendiary.

PAUL: Because of people like up.

BORGER: No, no, no, no. Come on, some of the stuff was very incendiary, and saying that in 1993 the Israelis were responsible for the bombing of the World Trade Center, that kind of stuff.

PAUL: Good-bye.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ROMANS: He says he disavows it. What more do you want? I didn't write it. I won't tell you who wrote it. It was 20 years ago, I have done a lot of things since then. And I disavow the content of that.

VELSHI: He said six or eight people were involved, and if we knew who the six or eight people were, we'd find them, interview them, ask them. Did you write this? Did you discuss this with Ron Paul? It is our job to try and dig this out. I asked him very clearly, will you give us the names of the people who worked for and you wrote it? He said no.

ROMANS: He says this keeps coming up, why do you keep asking about this? There are a lot of interviews where this never came up. This is 20 years ago we have discussed so many aspects about beliefs, his books, his legislation. Now as the higher he gets in the polls, people are taking a broader look at history. He says he disavows it, but it keeps popping back up.

VELSHI: Still to come, a woman brutally beaten and dragged in the streets, but she is still speaking out. An Egyptian activist recovers from a horrifying military crackdown. We'll have her story after the break.

ROMANS: And the House deadlocked over extending that payroll tax holiday. Senators John McCain and Dick Durbin are here, big names from both parties. One message, get it done.

VELSHI: And remember this video, a delivery guy chucking a fragile box over a fence? We'll tell you what FedEx is saying. You're watching AMERICAN MORNING. It is 13 minutes after the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ROMANS: Welcome back.

She was beaten and kicked, dragged through the streets, but they will not silence her. An Egyptian activist brutalized by military forces is speaking out as she recovers now in a hospital. Her story, in just a moment.

But first, I want to warn you that this report that were about to show you contains scenes some viewers might find upsetting. But these scenes a reality of what's happening right now. CNN's Mohammed Jamjoon has the story.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

MOHAMMED JAMJOON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Even after the attack, and two fractures to her skull, Azza Hilal Suleiman, was unbound, still speaking out.

AZZA HILAL SULEIMAN, EGYPTIAN ACTIVIST: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE).

JAMJOON: "They were hitting a veiled woman," she says. "They removed her veil and exposed the underwear she was wearing."

This is the scene she was describing. A veiled Egyptian female protester, being beaten by riot police, dragged, partially stripped of her clothing, even stomped on.

CNN received this video from a human rights activist.

SULEIMAN: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE).

JAMJOON: "They kept hitting her," she says, so I ran and tried to cover her body and pull her out. They started beating us.

Seen here in a red jacket, Azza tries to help the wounded woman. Security forces rush toward her, push her to the ground and then a merciless barrage. She sustained multiple blows to the head.

These pictures show just some of her injuries. When we tracked Azza down, she wanted to speak to us. But when we arrived to the hospital for the interview, her condition had deteriorated.

(on camera): We're trying to get in to see Azza. She is in that room. We actually hear screams emanating from inside that room. We've not been able to so far. The doctors that we've spoken would say that she needs to be taken to the ICU.

(voice-over): A short time later, we're given access to her by family members, but Azza is in agony and can't speak with us. "I can't take it," she says. "I can't. I'm going to die. Have mercy on me."

(END VIDEOTAPE)

ROMANS: Mohammed, the images of -- of those pictures, of all of those riot police with their shields and their sticks and two women laying on the ground, I mean, it's -- iy's devastating. A devastating portrayal of the military rule of the country. And how -- how is that woman doing now?

JAMJOON: Well, Christine, I'm happy to report we're hearing from Azza's family today that she's actually improved. That she's talking a bit and eating. So we're trying to see if we can catch up with her a bit later in the day. It's good news at least that she's doing better temporarily.

But it's cases like Azza's that have really outraged so many women here and in fact just a couple of days ago, there was a -- there was a woman's march here, thousands of women came out to express solidarity with the women who have been beaten by riot police these past few days and to express their anger at the ruling military council of this country for the abuse that's being perpetrated against female protesters lately.

For their part, the Supreme Council, the Armed Forces, the ruling military council, they issued a statement of regret for violations against Egyptian women. But that really doesn't seem to be holding any water with the female activists we're speaking with here. They say it's a systematic pattern of abuse that has to come to an end as soon as possible.

ROMANS: All right. Mohammed Jamjoon, thank you for that report and please keep us posted on her condition. Thank you.

VELSHI: All right. It's 20 minutes after the hour. Reynolds Wolf is in our Extreme Weather Center taking a look at weather -- travel weather right now. Is there anything extreme going on?

REYNOLDS WOLF, AMS METEOROLOGIST: There's going to be something very extreme possibly this afternoon in parts of the southeast, especially Georgia, Alabama, Louisiana and a little bit of Florida.

Let me show you what's what. We've got this area that you happen to see in the Deep South. We have a possibility of isolated tornadoes, damaging winds, even some large hale. We might even want to throw in a potential for some flash flooding in some spots, too. I would expect you will have some delays in Atlanta, Montgomery, Birmingham, even in New Orleans before the day is out. Even in your smaller regional airports and spots like Pensacola and Mobile, you might have some backups. It's all going to be a certainty.

Now, what we have at this point, though, just some strong storms mostly moving through Shreveport. Back over towards Houston, all of this driving to the east. This is of course the area where we have that slight risk of a tornado. The tornado watch that will be in effect until 1:00 local time so certainly worth watching.

What we're also going to see today is going to be the chance of snow building once again into the Central and Southern Rockies. Strong winds, possible whiteout conditions along parts of I-40, I-25. Only one to two inches of snowfall in Albuquerque and points southward a bit higher. We'll have the higher elevations.

The snow amounts will be a bit more, anywhere from 6 to 12. The national perspective, nice and cool across the Northern Plains. Chance of scattered showers for the (INAUDIBLE) Valley and into the Cascades. Breezy in Southern California. These severe storms get a big bull's-eye in the southeast and a mix of sun and clouds for parts in the Northeast with New York, as we wrap it up with a high of 55.

That's your forecast. Ali, your turn, man.

VELSHI: Thank you, my friend. I'm going to be traveling around looking for some snow in the next few days.

WOLF: I understand.

VELSHI: I'm going to go to Toronto. I've heard that there's a chance that there'll be some snow on Christmas Eve. Who knows? You know, it kind of -- it kind of gives a little gift to (INAUDIBLE), like even when it's not expected.

ROMANS: Can Santa go to Canada first or the U.S. first?

VELSHI: Under the new visa regulations, I don't know.

ROMANS: All right. Still to come this morning -- I will have to look into that, huh? A big countdown to a tag fight (ph). Two senators from two parties saying, hey, get the House in order. Senators John McCain and Dick Durbin here.

VELSHI: FedEx speaking out after this disturbing video. FedEx delivery guy tossing a computer monitor over a fence in a box. Does this guy still have a job? We'll find out on the other side.

It's 23 minutes after the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ROMANS: Welcome back. "Minding Your Business" this morning.

U.S. stock futures are higher after a quiet day yesterday. The Dow and S&P 500 just barely ending the day in positive territory. Investors were concerned Europe's banks were in more trouble than originally thought.

In about an hour from now, we're going to get a fresh read on the jobs situation. The initial jobless claims report is expected to show that 380,000 new unemployment claims were filed for the first time last week. It's a good sign for the jobs market any time that number is below 400,000. So we'll see if that's so today.

Now, the Justice Department announcing a huge record settlement here, announcing that Bank of America will pay $335 million to settle claims that Countrywide Financial, now owned by Bank of America, Countrywide, the lending unit, steered minorities at a higher interest rate, sub-prime loans, even though they qualified for plain vanilla low interest rate loans. Countrywide put them into loans that turned out to be pretty dangerous and pretty expensive for those people. Attorney General Eric Holder says this discrimination took place between 2004 and 2008.

Investigators are trying to track down the missing $1.2 billion in customer fund missing after the collapse of MF Global. They say some of that money could be in the U.K. They've identified about $700 million that was transferred to England in the days before the firm's collapse. But investigators warn that getting the money back could be a long and drawn-out process.

In the meantime, there are still farmers who have brokerage accounts with MF Global who are waiting to get their money back.

Johnson & Johnson is pulling 1,200 bottles of Motrin from store shelves. The company which has been plagued by recalls over the past couple of years has said these products are safe. You don't have to return them, but the pain reliever just might not work as fast as you might expect.

It's go time for workers at UPS today. It's the biggest shopping -- shipping day of the year. UPS says it will deliver nearly 26 million packages today, that's about 300 a second. That's about a million more than it delivered last year, too. UPS attributes that increase to more folks shopping online.

Don't forget for the very latest news about your money, check out the all-new CNNMoney.com.

AMERICAN MORNING will be back right back after this break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ROMANS: Police have been investigating his death for more than a month, but still no arrests have been made. What's taking so long? CNN's George Howell is live in Atlanta this morning. They're still undergoing and doing an investigation. No question there are an awful lot of people to question to get their accounts.

GEORGE HOWELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Christine, Ali, good morning. Fair to say, this is a complicated case with a lot of moving parts to it. We know for a fact that there were at least 30 people on the bus when Robert Champion was killed. So we turned to someone who understands intricate, complex cases like this to get an understanding of the questions police are asking to find out who did this.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

HOWELL: On a tour bus parked outside an Orlando hotel November 19th, Florida A&M drum major Robert Champion died after a vicious beating. Investigators say it was a homicide that resulted from hazing.

MIKE BROOKS, HLN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: You look at a bus like this, the narrow aisles, the seats so close together, the ceiling. It's just such tight confines in here. And to have to walk from the front to the back of the bus with people just beating the hell out of you, what must he have gone through?

HOWELL: We turned to HLN law enforcement analyst Mike Brooks to take us through the mind of investigators trying to piece together what happened to the 26-year-old victim before someone placed this 911 call.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Is he breathing?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We don't know if he's breathing or not, but we need to get an ambulance ASAP.

HOWELL: How do you determine the level of culpability, who did what?

BROOKS: That's a great question. And as a law enforcement officers, I want to know, who were the ones delivering the blows, the serious blows? Was there one person who delivered the most blows that caused his death? We don't know. Were there other people that might not have been involved at all?

HOWELL: Band members who spoke to CNN say it may have been the result of a hazing ritual called crossing bus C, where the victim walks backwards from the front of the bus to the back while being beaten repeatedly by fellow band members.

BROOKS: Investigators have their work cut out for them because they have to interview everyone, but this bus is a crime scene. What happened? Where did it happen on this bus when he was being beaten with fists, maybe with musical instruments? Those are things law enforcement has to find out exactly what happened.

HOWELL: Robert Champion died of significant rapid blood loss due to blunt force trauma, according to the autopsy report, the victim of a severe beating. And with so many possible witnesses on the bus --

BROOKS: I find it hard to believe that that much was going on inside the bus, if they were beating him so viciously inside that bus, then somebody on the outside didn't hear something, didn't see something.

HOWELL: Brooks says it's a complicated investigation to determine exactly what happened in the moments leading up to Robert Champion's death.

BROOKS: Did somebody try to stop this? Did somebody say, he's had enough, knock it off? Did that happen? Only the people on the bus know.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HOWELL: And that will be the new headline in this case when police make an arrests. Again, the Orlando Sheriff's office and the Florida department of law enforcement jointly investigating this case and now more than one month since Robert champion was killed. Ali, Christine.

ROMANS: George, thank you so much.

Just in, the Labor Department says that 364,000 jobless claims were filed for the very first time last week.

VELSHI: We had numbers in the 400,000 for a long time.

ROMANS: This is the lowest number since April of 2008. So anything below that 400,000 level shows you layoffs are slowing and that you have more health in the labor market.

VELSHI: That's indicative of what we've seen in the last few months. We've seen what seems to be a slightly growing. And all the things out there that you need to be concerned about, jobless numbers are the biggest deal. You know, jobs are the most important. We do have some other news, as well.

ROMANS: The economy grew slightly slower in the third quarter than we thought. This is the third revision from the government -- 1.8 percent. People thought it was about two percent. We know there was some kind of summer, early fall slowdown.

VELSHI: Europe was starting to affect us at that point. Not entirely unexpected, but it is lower than we expected. Keep that in mind places like India are growing in the range of seven percent and China growing above nine percent. So we're growing at 1.8 percent. And Europe, by the way, is probably not growing at all economically, maybe zero and maybe in recession.

ROMANS: Most people think the U.S. economy is doing better. The third economy is a rearview mirror, and a lot of people think that the fourth quarter, as you can see from this jobless claims report, is doing a little bit better.

VELSHI: Coming up next, his resume only gets more and more impressive after Kenneth Branagh is getting rave reviews and award nominations for his role in the movie "My Week with Marilyn." And the star has arrived here. He's is about to sit down with us. Do not miss this conversation. It's 35 minutes after the hour. Welcome.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VELSHI: Most days by now I'm yelling at you to get up in New York. Don't worry about it. It's two days before Christmas. If you're watching us in TV, just stay in bed. It's 53 degrees. It's nice and going to get to 55 today, sunny. Nice day to walk around. Call the boss and tell him you're done for the week.

ROMANS: Go get a movie "My Week with Marilyn." The new movie showcasing the late screen siren back in the 1950s, but there's more to Marilyn Monroe than we know. It's a history of insecurity and tension on the set.

VELSHI: The movie shows a clash of acting approaches between Monroe and the famous actor and director Sir Laurence Olivier. Take a look.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Cut! You wait. Marilyn, please, tell me how I can help you.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't know who else -- I don't know who she is.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You have had all of your gift, we all are.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: She's not real.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Then why not simply rely on your natural talents.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VELSHI: A bit of sarcasm perhaps in there. We're joined now by Kenneth Branagh.

ROMANS: A man with natural talents who played Sir Laurence Olivier and has also been nominated for Golden Globe for best supporting actor. We loved the film actually. And it must have been so interesting to play someone who is a real person trying to interact with another real person in your industry making a real film.

KENNETH BRANAGH, ACTOR/DIRECTOR: It was because I direct film that I've acted in and he's directing this film that he's acting in with Marilyn Monroe -- come to England to meet with a bunch of actors. Michelle Williams is Marilyn Monroe and comes to England and works with a bunch of British actors.

We filmed where the original movie that they tried to make was filled on the same sound stage. Michelle had the same dressing room as Marilyn. We did scenes in the same corridor. It did feel at the time that you were going back in time. It was very, very immersive. It feels like you take it back to a pocket of life in the 1956 in the movie. And in England that was quite magical.

VELSHI: Tell us about the story, because I think sympathy for Marilyn Monroe is quite generational. To some people now she's like Lindsey Lohan. People say why can't you just get your stuff together? But this movie seems to give her some layers and nuances and complexity.

ROMANS: She comes off more sympathetic in this film.

BRANAGH: I think so, and I think it's because Michelle Williams, who plays her quite wonderfully in addition to presenting the screen siren, you know, you mentioned the physical transformation for Michelle who is quite petite in her way and becomes this hour glass structure --

ROMANS: How do they do that?

BRANAGH: They went behind a closed door and came out many hours later and she looked very voluptuous. But because she is such a terrific actress, she lets you see in moments when she is vulnerable and present to the world this image that is Marilyn Monroe and sense of isolation. She was the first proto-super-celebrity where people liked the work that she did, but they were just a fascinated by her private life, which was pretty troubling.

ROMANS: It's one of my favorite scenes where you say, teaching Marilyn Monroe how to act is like teaching Urdu to a badger. You say it with such -- do you think that was true about Marilyn Monroe?

BRANAGH: That is a real line.

ROMANS: He said that?

BRANAGH: He absolutely said it.

ROMANS: Was he right?

BRANAGH: I don't know that he was right, but his exasperation was at the pitch, the producer's remark like that. There was a sense that when two worlds collide, these two people. University recognized that the greatest actor in the world and she the greatest movie star in the world in this light comedy should have produced something terrific. The film itself is not bad at all, but onset, a nightmare.

VELSHI: So, here's the thing. I don't know whether you or Michelle Williams had a tougher part because you're an accomplished director frustrated with an actor who is not doing her job. Michelle Williams an accomplished actor who is playing an actor who is really struggling.

BRANAGH: It's funny. It's well put. She had had to find that way of having difficulty for the character without feeling difficult inside the role herself.

VELSHI: That's an acting accomplishment.

BRANAGH: Yes, exactly. This film demanded of the people who were playing real people that they be technically very precise in the way they mimic or impersonate those people but then play them as real people. You had to abandon all that and then play the scene as naturally as we would.

VELSHI: That's just a fun thing to watch, aside from the plot.

BRANAGH: It's very absorbing. You look at all the movies. And Michelle was encyclopedic. She could do the voice and shimmying walk. They said you had to tie your knees together in order to have that feeling that she was on wheels. Olivier had a very particular walk, and I have to have my eyebrows plucked and a prosthetic chin piece.

VELSHI: I think your chin is fine.

BRANAGH: My chin is OK, but his is rather more sculpted.

ROMANS: These are such famous people that you could run the risk of being Kenneth Branagh and playing Laurence Olivier and Michelle Williams playing a Marilyn Monroe. When I watched it, you were both those characters to me very, very quickly. That is a real risk.

BRANAGH: Thank you. It is a risk, and it's thrilling to hear you say that. People responded to being taken down to this journey back in time. Whether it's Michelle or Ken and they're the kind of, the sense, I hope, that Simon Curtis, this wonderful director gives with great ensemble cast is basically that you -- you're there and there's authenticity. Because in theory, we've all been in those situations, and I hope we bring some reality to the back stage.

ROMANS: You're up for awards. When you're making the film, do you get a tingle saying, oh, wow, we could get some accolades for this one?

BRANAGH: To be truthful, you never feel that, but you do have moments, as I did on day one, when Michelle walked on as Marilyn for the first time. Well, Judi Dench was standing next to me and grabbed me by the arm and said, oh, my gosh. I think she thinks this is going to be good. I'll take her word any time.

VELSHI: A hearty congratulations. It's well worth seeing. Kenneth Branagh is in "My Week with Marilyn." He's also a golden globe nominee for best supporting actor.

ROMANS: More morning headlines ahead. Also ahead, comedian Will Ferrell. What a morning. It's 45 minutes after the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VELSHI: Welcome back. It is 31 minutes after the hour. Time for this morning's top stories.

A wave of coordinated and deadly bombings in Baghdad just days after the last U.S. troops left. Police say four car bombs and nine roadside bombs went off within two hours of each other. Killing at least 63 people and wounding close to 200 others.

Wal-Mart is pulling a batch of baby formula off its shelves after a 10-day-old Missouri boy from died from a rare bacterial infection.

The manufacturer of Enfamil says its record show the formula tested negative for the bacteria before it was shipped. Health investigators are looking for the source of the infection.

They're also checking environmental factors like the water that was used to prepare the formula for the little boy who died.

Eight U.S. soldiers are facing charges in connection with the apparent suicide of Private Danny Chen. There are claims of hazing and bullying.

Chen was found dead in a guard tower in Afghanistan in October. It is believed that he shot himself. Officials say the investigation is ongoing and more charges could be filed -- Christine.

ROMANS: All right, Ali. Nine days now until a tax hike for working Americans and House Republicans walking out of an effort by Democrats to force a vote extending the payroll tax for two months.

They want to take care of it for a whole year. So there's no resolution in sight this morning, even after President Obama spent an afternoon on the phone with congressional leaders on both sides, in both houses.

Joining us now is Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin. Is this -- this is not a game. We watch this and the American public, is this a game of chicken? What's happening?

SEN. DICK DURBIN (D-IL), MAJORITY WHIP: This is very real, 160 million Americans -- as of January 1st if the House fails to approve this bipartisan measure passed in the Senate.

And some three million Americans will be cut off from unemployment. In my home state of Illinois, 50,000 people will be cut off January 1st. Folks who have been out of work looking for jobs for a long time.

ROMANS: So yesterday, an accountant, a certified public accountant was talking to Ali and I, who said even a two-month extension -- we can't have this kind of uncertainty.

We can't know what we're doing with the payroll tax holiday in the near term. Giving, I guess, John Boehner, credit that you can't just keep, quote/unquote "kicking the can down the road." But is this about policy or is it about politics here?

DURBIN: It's both. On the policy side, what I'd say is what we decided in the Senate. I know you have John McCain following me. John McCain and I both -- 89 Democrats and Republicans agreed to extend this for 60 days while we negotiate a long-term approach to it.

It was a responsible, bipartisan overwhelming vote, 89-10 and so for those who were taking 2 percent out of the payroll tax, it would merely extend it to the end of February while we negotiate this. But what John Boehner suggested is stop at this point, nine days away from this deadline.

ROMANS: What is the next thing here? The other option is a conference committee maybe. That's not going happen overnight so that could be an option here. I'm going to get your thoughts on that in a second.

But Speaker Boehner had a photo op yesterday. You can see and we're going to show it here. He has a photo op yesterday. There are Republicans, he's appointed as negotiators to the conference committee, a conference committee that doesn't exist yet.

He said that they were there. They're ready to work and then that empty side of the table is presumably where the Democrats would sit. Can you envision any scenario, which the Democrats show up at that table there?

DURBIN: What he does not understand or does not admit is in the senate, unfortunately, it takes days for us to set up a conference committee and meet. We can't do this before January 1st even if it was our intention to do it.

But the point I want to get to is, John Boehner can spare America and three million unemployed Americans and 160 million working Americans the uncertainty of a January 1st deadline by just extending this bipartisan measure passed in the Senate until the end of February.

ROMANS: But you say he has lost control of his party.

DURBIN: I can't understand why someone has not stood up in the House Republican conference and said, look at what happened under our watch in this last year.

We threatened to shut down government twice. We threatened to close down the economy over the debt ceiling and now we're denying to over half of the people living in America a payroll tax cut in the midst of recession.

There ought to be one voice in that caucus that stands up and says, listen, we owe an obligation to this country that goes beyond the next election.

ROMANS: In your view then what's happening -- what is the assumption of Senate Democrats? It's the internal politics of House Republicans that you say that he lost control of.

DURBIN: Well, I look at it and think all the times that I've been on these conference calls that he referred to where he called in this whole conference. There are always be some out liars and dissidents who, you know, let's go and let's fight them until the bitter end.

And then a voice of reason will prevail. A leader will stand up and say calm down. Look at this at the long haul. When "The Wall Street Journal" editorialized yesterday against John Boehner and the House Republican strategy that should have been a wakeup call for those in the caucus.

That they're going down the track that even the most conservative publications and leaders in America rejected.

ROMANS: So what breaks it? What breaks the standoff?

DURBIN: I think that John Boehner should acknowledge the fact he cannot leave three million people without an extension of unemployment benefits and 160 million people, middle income Americans facing a tax increase because of Republican action.

He should extend it these 60 days. He can do it just by calling for a vote and passing the bipartisan measure from the Senate.

ROMANS: Can I ask you a question. You've been at this game for 20 years in the House and in the Senate. You know, we always say the word a new low for bipartisanship award, a new low for Congress getting something done. We know that the -- approval ratings are low. Have you ever seen a time when it's been like this?

DURBIN: I can tell you the worst time I can recall was when Speaker Gingrich brought the government to a shutdown in a confrontation with President Clinton. He ended up being removed to speaker not long after.

I think what we've seen this last year with the House Republican leadership, is the failure for someone to step up and try to course, which really focuses on distinguishing the two parties, but not at the expense of this nation and our fragile economy.

ROMANS: John Boehner has House members who are there because they made promises to their constituents and they say they are keeping those promises and that they are the change in Washington.

DURBIN: And the approval rating of Congress is what, 11 percent? That kind of approach is not sitting well with the American people. We have bipartisan response in the Senate overwhelming bipartisan response. John Boehner and the House Republicans rejected it.

ROMANS: Senator Dick Durbin, nice to see you. Thank you so much --Ali.

VELSHI: Senator Durbin, like Senator McCain, with long traditions of bipartisanship. Senator John McCain wants his fellow Republicans in the House to get their act together. He said the standoff is damaging his party and is unfair to the American people.

Senator John McCain joins us now live from Phoenix. Senator, always good to see you. Before we start on this discussion, however I know have you a lot to say about it.

I know that earlier this week, you were one of the dissenting voices about the -- marking the American departure from Iraq. You feel we should have left troops there, some active troops there. Not just civilians and advisers.

Now after seeing what's happened overnight, what are your thoughts?

SEN. JOHN MCCAIN (R), ARIZONA: My thoughts are that unfortunately, what I anticipated is taking place. Condoleezza Rice said after we had reached an agreement with Iraqis, said, we always envisioned leaving a residual force there for a variety of reasons, including providing some additional stability.

The president is going around, spouting how we have left a stable and democratic Iraq, and, look, that's part of his campaign, he promised we would withdraw from Iraq. He now has slick propaganda out saying promise is kept.

The tragedy of it all is 4,474 young Americans gave their lives and General Keane, the architect of the surge said we won the war and now we're losing the peace.

VELSHI: All right, Senator, let's move to the conversation that we were just having, Christine was just having with Senator Durbin here about this idea of there being no payroll tax extension versus a two-month extension versus a one-year extension.

It does not appear that the one year extension is on the table for the moment. It's probably not likely we're going to get that by the end of the year. What is your take on what House Republicans, Republicans in general, should be doing about this?

MCCAIN: First of all, can I mention since Senator Durbin talked about the House's behavior, could I mention that the United States Senate, for two years, has not passed a budget. That's a law requiring that.

Just last Saturday morning, nine agencies of government, $900 billion, a 1,200-page document, we had 15 minutes of debate. No amendments. I've identified $3.5 billion worth of pork in the defense bill and we passed it after 15 minutes of debate.

That's how the Senate is functioning these days, so Senator Durbin and Senator Reid in the leadership.

VELSHI: Let's talk about this. This is very frustrating to a lot of Americans, to a lot of observers, to everybody who's out there to say there is a singular job.

Congress can be expensive if it wants, but it has some basic minimums that it has to achieve. In the last year, we have seen failure on those fronts several times, with the budget, with the debt ceiling, with the bipartisan "Super Committee." What's wrong?

MCCAIN: There's a dysfunctionality and a degree of partisanship, which on both sides which, unfortunately, transcends the national interest. And part of it I think is presidential leadership.

You mentioned opening the show, that the president called various people yesterday. The four previous presidents I served under, including President Clinton, would be calling them over to the White House and sitting down with them and looking them in the eye and saying, look, we need to fix this.

Second of all, there is a good point that the Republicans in the House are making. Why is it only two months? Is it going to be Groundhog Day all over again in two more months, and two more months?

Why not take the Senate bill as passed which passed as Dick Durbin pointed out with 89 votes, pass the exact same thing in the House only make it a year, instead of just two months. We could do that and maybe we could get onto other things that are pressing issues that face the country.

Look, the Republicans are losing this fight. We need to get back on track. There is no doubt about that, but I think it requires some presidential leadership, as well as a little bit of bipartisanship.

VELSHI: Senator --

MCCAIN: -- people are being caught in the cross fire.

VELSHI: It's frustrating because there are so many big, big issues that have to be dealt with. That you think the ones that have general bipartisan support where we generally think, and there are some people who don't think there should be a payroll tax extension at all.

But generally speaking most people in both parties do and we can't get that done. Is it really fair to put as much heat as are you putting the president on this one? I mean, a lot of eyes are pointing to House republican leadership right now as being intransigent.

MCCAIN: I think that that is legitimate to an extent, but I also think that in times like these and in past four presidents that I have served under, they have exerted a lot more leadership than going shopping.

And by the way, I also feel that in the upcoming election, which is less than a year from now, no incumbent is safe nor should they be.

VELSHI: Senator, let me ask you this, a slightly broader economic question. We are all discussing this because most people think that this should pass and it now becomes a process issue, which gets very frustrating again for our viewers and for Americans because they don't understand why we have to learn about the sausage being made all the time at Congress.

That said, do you think the extension of this payroll tax is a make or break in our tenuous economy right now? Is it a big deal?

MCCAIN: I think it's become a bigger deal than it actually is. I think it's -- it's something we need to do, but I don't think it's a -- I don't think it has huge impact, but it certainly has some impact.

You know, $1,000 a year is a big amount of money to most Americans and I think it's very important. I've worry about the drain on the Social Security Trust Fund. I worry about the fact that we are continuing to increase the debt and the deficit. But now it's become very symbolic and I think it has to be done.

VELSHI: Like almost everything else that has become to do with finances and money. I think there was some discussion, that while the money will come out of Social Security Trust Fund.

The money will be transferred into there so it will come out of the general fund. But for most people, it's the same math. The bottom line, it's money. Senator, always a pleasure to speak to you. Thank you for being with us.

MCCAIN: Thank you very much. Good to be with you.

VELSHI: Senator John McCain was a 2008 Republican presidential nominee, long-time senator and leader of his party. And, again, you can hear both from Dick Durbin and John McCain, frustration in how partisan things are.

ROMANS: The Senate passed this thing. What, 89?

VELSHI: Yes, 89 votes.

ROMANS: So the Senate passed this thing and so they are seeing the House is the issue here. I mean, I wonder from his perspective too, Dick Durbin says he hasn't seen it as bad since back in the '90s when there was a showdown between then speaker of the House, Newt Gingrich.

VELSHI: Senator McCain does point out, he says he still puts -- while most people are putting a lot of the blame on House Republicans, Senator McCain does point out that he thinks more can happen from President Obama and the White House. He did mention that maybe the president shouldn't have been shopping. Dan Lothian was saying --

ROMANS: But Dirk Durbin said the president couldn't give a statement ahead of time because they knew the Republicans would turn around and use it against him. So, I mean, it depends on who you ask.

VELSHI: Therein lies the problem in Washington.

ROMANS: Yes.

Still to come this morning: Christmas at the White House, first lady-style. We're going to tell you the decorating secrets of some of our country's most famous first ladies.

VELSHI: And remember this video? A delivery guy chucking a fragile box over a fence. We're going to tell you what FedEx is saying about it.

Forty-five minutes after the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VELSHI: FedEx is reacting to a video that captured one of the world's worst deliveries. We first showed you this yesterday.

You can see a FedEx worker tossing a package containing a computer monitor over a fence. The computer monitor did end up broken. The guy who received said it was home at the time. The guy could have rung the bell.

So, we were wondering. Does this guy have a job?

FedEx says, quote, "They are working within their disciplinary policy." And right now, the delivery man is not working with customers. Doesn't look from now like he was working with customers much in the first place.

ROMANS: He was working with the computer monitor. And working hard with it.

VELSHI: Yes.

ROMANS: All right. He calls himself a cyber illusionist, combining old world magic with technology.

VELSHI: It sounds like fun. This week, Dr. Sanjay Gupta introduces us to futuristic showman Marco Tempest on CNN's "THE NEXT LIST."

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MARCO TEMPEST, CYBER-ILLUSIONIST: My name is Marco Tempest. I'm a cyber-illusionist, which means I combine magic and science to create illusions. It's deception, it's science, technology, gadgets. Calling myself a magician evokes a certain -- a certain image. Like if we hear magician, we immediately know what that is. It's a guy who does a magic trick.

A cyber illusionist, it requires a little bit of explanation. It's a conversation starter and that's really what my work is all about.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VELSHI: And you can catch "THE NEXT LIST" each Sunday, 2:00 p.m. Eastern, right here on CNN.

I like that. I like that "NEXT LIST" stuff. "THE NEXT LIST" of people you're going to hear about. These are not people who are already famous. They are just doing crazy, interesting things.

I'm not quite sure what a cyber-illusionist is going to achieve for us, but the concept that somebody thinks like that means that they could solve problems that you and I are thinking about, because --

ROMANS: Velshi is hooked.

VELSHI: I also realize that you and I are both wearing gray stripes today.

ROMANS: I know. We look like Richie Rich and his much, much younger sister.

Still to come: decorating the White House. We're going to tell you the Christmas style secrets of first ladies throughout history.

It's almost 50 minutes after the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ROMANS: I love the Christmas plays in (INAUDIBLE).

All right, Christmas at the White House -- a lavish affair and a lot of pressure for the first lady. Throughout history, they've been responsible for decorating the most famous house in the country, expected to bring their own style, their own personal touch.

So, what does it take to decorate 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue?

Our next guest knows. She wrote "Christmas with The First Ladies: A Look Back at the White House Styles, Secrets and Traditions." And she decorated the White House for First Lady Laura Bush back in 2008.

Coleen Christian Burke joins me now.

Nice to see you.

COLEEN CHRISTIAN BURKE, MEMBER OF THE 2008 WHITE HOUSE HOLIDAY DECORATOR TEAM: Merry Christmas.

ROMANS: Merry Christmas to you, too.

Now, tell me about the process. How long it takes and what you have to go through to get the White House ready to be shown for Christmas?

BURKE: Right. It's almost like a military operation. The first lady will start planning as early as February or March to come up with a theme.

ROMANS: Oh my gosh! A whole year before.

BURKE: A whole year before. She's not done with one Christmas and she has to zoom into the next.

So, they start planning the theme early and then she starts thinking about her vision and what she wants to have happen. And then over the summer they start baking all the baked goods and desserts that they're going to have in December.

But the actual volunteers show up for about three days, before Thanksgiving, or the end of November.

ROMANS: And that's the military precision part of it?

BURKE: Exactly. That's when they start pre-building everything, getting everything together that they later install over two days in the White House.

ROMANS: I want to look at the grand foyer designed by Laura Bush. This one from 2004. It's beautiful. It's white lights. It's just really lovely.

But the public couldn't enjoy it because they weren't allowed into the White House for some four years, I think, after 9/11.

This is a home, but it's also the home of the leader for the free world. You're designing for the nation. You're also designing for the family. It's an interesting balance.

BURKE: Yes, public and private. And there are those very public moments, parties and celebrations, and private, tender Christmas moments that are all captured by presidential photographers and that's all in the book.

But the first lady really is designing for the 100,000 or so people that come to tour the White House.

ROMANS: So, the holiday decorating tradition began with really Jackie Kennedy.

BURKE: Yes.

ROMANS: And since then, every first lady has had her own theme. I think Rosalynn Carter was the time of austerity in this country, and gas lines and shortages and they used recycled things and egg shells.

And talk to me a little bit about how the different first ladies put their own mark on this.

BURKE: Right. The decorations will often reflect the economic times. For instance, Mrs. Ford wanted a visit to the White House to feel like a visit to grandma's house, something very simple and homey.

And then you have Nancy Reagan was glitzy and glamorous, with lot of gold and garland.

So, they all put their own individual stamp on and signature style.

ROMANS: And Nancy Reagan, you bring her up. There's a wonderful picture in the book of her on Mr. T.'s lap.

BURKE: My favorite in the whole book, my favorite.

And talk about a pop culture snapshot at Christmastime. So much fun. She always had a celebrity Santa and I think Mr. T clearly stole the show.

ROMANS: Let's talk about this year's. You must watch this now with such enthusiasm to see what they're doing. So, the White House this year, what do you think?

BURKE: Yes. I love Mrs. Obama's style and what I think is really wonderful about the type of themes that she chooses always goes back to the real meaning of the holiday. And this year, it's shine, give and share.

And she also remembers our military, which couldn't be more fitting. She encourages everyone to write letters to the military and just really honor the sacrifice that's being made.

ROMANS: All right. Well, the book is called "Christmas with the First Ladies." It's so nice to see you.

BURKE: Thank you.

ROMANS: Actually did one of these that White House.

Coleen Christian Burke, thank you so much for joining us. And merry Christmas to you, too.

BURKE: Merry Christmas.

ROMANS: This morning's top news headlines coming up next. It's 56 minutes after the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Content and programming copyright 2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP.    ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.    This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.      

Document CNLM000020111222e7cm0005l

News; Domestic
Payroll Tax Battle Turns Ugly; Wendy's On Track To Unseat Burger King As #2; Wal-Mart Pulls Formula After Death; Investigation Continues into Death of Florida A&M Drum Major; Actor Kenneth Branagh Interviewed; Will Ferrell Gives Back; Dogs, Cats, Babies & Other Viral Gold

Ali Velshi, Christine Romans, Kate Bolduan, Dan Lothian, Maureen McCann, Reynolds Wolf, George Howell, Alina Cho, Jeanne Moos      
8,575 words
22 December 2011
CNN: American Morning
CNLM
English
© 2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. All rights reserved. Prepared by CQ Transcriptions, LLC.      

CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR: That investigation has found U.S. forces acted in self-defense. It's a decision that will no doubt further complicate relations between Washington and Islamabad because Pakistan's military has repeated that this airstrike near the Afghan border was deliberate.

ALI VELSHI, CNN ANCHOR: And they say they want to talk, but the talk is getting cheap, the time is running out for this payroll tax cut. Here's the countdown on the White House Web site. Just nine days now until the payroll tax cut expires and nine days until the gridlock in Washington takes a bite out of your paycheck.

Now, how much it's going to take out of your paycheck. Based on a 50,000 a year salary could cost you about $83 a month. Add that up to over a year, and it's about $1,000 and there are real disputes as to whether that is significant or insignificant in this economy.

We just spoke to John McCain who said, to a lot of Americans, $1,000 in a year is significant. It could be that you're buying a new washing machine or a fridge.

ROMANS: He wants it to pass.

VELSHI: Yes.

ROMANS: But at the same time, he says he thinks we kind of made it into a bigger deal in terms of the impact on the economy. It's the negative on the uncertain economy.

VELSHI: But as you have pointed out many times, when you put temporary goodies into legislation, nobody ever wants to lose them. Tax cuts, it's very difficult.

ROMANS: It's really hard to have a temporary tax cut and this is proof of that. And there's still no resolution in sight this morning.

House Republicans walked out of an effort by Democrats to force a vote on extending it for two months, which was passed by the Senate.

Earlier, we spoke to Senators Dick Durbin and John McCain, a Democrat and Republican, who both say the House should get its act together.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. DICK DURBIN (D-IL), MAJORITY WHIP: I think that John Boehner should acknowledge the fact that he cannot leave 3 million people without an extension of unemployment benefits and 160 million people, middle income Americans facing a tax increase because of Republican action. He should extend it, the 60 days. He can do it just by calling for a vote and passing the bipartisan measure from the Senate.

SEN. JOHN MCCAIN (R), ARIZONA: The Republicans are losing this fight. We need to get back on track. There is no doubt about that.

But I think it requires some presidential leadership, as well as a little bit of bipartisanship. A hundred and sixty million people are being caught in the crossfire.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VELSHI: Both sides were able to get their shots in before they took off. Not these two, we're talking about the House. We're covering all the angles.

Dan Lothian is live at the White House. Kate Bolduan is live in Washington with the latest.

Kate, let's start with you. Any movement now to where things stand?

KATE BOLDUAN, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: I wish I had an answer other than no, Ali, as we've been kind of following this slow, slow moving train this week. Bottom line, neither side is backing down at this point, but the pressure is mounting especially on House Republicans and, of course, a lot of public pressure can do a lot up here in Washington.

But, this pressure also mounting from their own fellow Republicans in the Senate, which is a notable point. During a phone call with the president yesterday, Speaker Boehner made it clear that he wasn't budging. Instead he asked the president to convince Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to appoint negotiators to conference committee to resolve their issues. That's highly unlikely to happen ahead of this January 1st deadline of when this tax cut will expire because of simply the politics and procedure involved here.

Senate Democrats and the president are standing firm that the only option they have is to pass this two-month extension to allow more time to negotiate the longer one-year deal that all of the leaders say they want and, meantime, the frustration is growing among Senate Republicans about how the House GOP has handled this.

As one top Senate Republican aide put it to me, the House Republicans are simply on an island of their own. Aides just simply suggesting that House Republicans have botched the politics here and that's where a lot of this frustration is coming from -- Ali, Christine.

VELSHI: All right. Kate, thanks very much. I know you'll be on top of this if anything budges, if anything moves.

BOLDUAN: I will promise.

ROMANS: If that slow-moving train gets out of the station.

President Obama is holding an event to keep the pressure on. He spent an afternoon on the phone with congressional leaders yesterday, but he did take some time to finish his Christmas shopping while the family is away in Hawaii.

Dan Lothian is live at the White House.

And, John McCain, Senator McCain took a shot at the president, about being shopping and being absent at leadership. But Dick Durbin told us, the president, he stands up and says anything House Republicans say, why are you meddling in this?

DAN LOTHIAN, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: That's right. I mean, look, there's a lot of finger-pointing that has been going back- and-forth all week and the White House saying that, really, this boils down to the ball being in the court of House Republicans. It's time for them to act, to go ahead and move forward on this short-term extension because they feel that this, number one, can hurt middle class Americans that you've been talking about, those families making $50,000 a year stand to lose according to the White House, $40 from each paycheck.

So, number one, it will hurt these families. But, also, the president believing that if something isn't done to extend this, then, perhaps, it could impact the overall economy, which, of course, we know has been struggling, making some small gains. They feel that something like this could certainly impact and reverse some of the gains that have been made.

So, what you will see from the president today is again making the case that the impact this will have on Americans. The president will have an event here at the White House, we expect, some time afternoon, where he, again, will put pressure on House Republicans, but this time the president will be joined by Americans who say that, you know, they'll be impacted by not having this extra $40.

The White House has been on this campaign to have people write into their blog, to tweet about what they would do with that $40. One of the people who did write in will also be here at the White House.

Again, this is the backdrop that the White House wants to set to show that this is not just coming from officials here at the White House in terms of the impact, but there are real Americans out there who will be hurt.

VELSHI: Still remains that open question, though. I think it's very creative of the White House to do that. It's a great idea to say, what would you do with this extra $80 a month, or whatever it comes out to depending on how much you earn? But it is still unclear what the impact, the greater impact on the environment will be.

ROMANS: It is almost like -- Dan, it's interesting. It's almost like gas prices going up or down. Something you feel right away and you feel viscerally and it affects your decisions on a very low level.

Gas prices are up from where they were last year.

VELSHI: Yes.

ROMANS: Thanks so much, Dan Lothian.

Wal-Mart, meanwhile, pulling a batch of baby formula from shelves after a baby's sudden death. The retail giant recalled Enfamil Newborn from its stores nationwide as a precaution it says. But only batches with this lot number, it's ZP1K7G. This is after a 10-day-old baby died from bacterial infections.

Officials are testing other environmental factors too, including the water that was used to mix with the formula. The formula's maker Meade Johnson Nutrition released this statement. "We are highly confident in the safety and quality of our products, and the rigorous testing we put them through."

VELSHI: Also new this morning, Johnson & Johnson is pulling 12 million bottles of Motrin from store shelves. The company which has been plagued by recalls over the past two years says the products are safe but the pain reliever might not work as fast as you might expect.

ROMANS: Thousands of nurses on strike today in California. They're fighting rising health care costs and pension cuts. Demonstrations will last only one day. It's not expected to affect patient care, but replacing those nurses for the day is expected to cost millions of dollars.

VELSHI: Four former NFL players are suing the NFL over concussions. They claim the NFL downplayed the link between brain damage and concussions. They include two retired Super Bowl champion running backs, Jamal Lewis and Dorsey Levens. The NFL has not responded to the lawsuit.

ROMANS: All right. Closing arguments begin today for the WikiLeaks suspect Bradley Manning. The outcome will help determine whether Army soldier Manning will face court-martial. The testimony lasted four days. Prosecutors called 20 witnesses, rather. Manning's defense attorneys spent just 35 minutes questioning two witnesses.

Manning is accused of committing one of the biggest intelligence leaks in U.S. history, if not the biggest.

VELSHI: A lot of people interested in this story. It came out late today -- late yesterday, I'm sorry. Bank of America, which is the largest bank in the country, has agreed to a settlement to pay $335 million to settle a discrimination lawsuit.

Now, the suit charged that Countrywide Financial, which was bought by Bank of America in 2008, discriminated against minorities. You remember Countrywide was the biggest subprime lender in the history of America. It steered people, Latinos and blacks, in particular, towards high-risk subprime mortgages between 2004 and 2008, even though those buyers qualified for less risky prime loans, which would have been at a lower interest rate.

ROMANS: So, it puts them at an economic disadvantage, costs them money simply because of their race.

VELSHI: Which is arguably worse than not giving them loans in the first place. They put them into dangerous loans.

Earlier Christine and I spoke to the Reverend Jesse Jackson who was talking about this and pointing the finger for years. We asked him if the settlement fits the crime.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

REV. JESSE JACKSON, PRESIDENT, RAINBOW/PUSH COALITION: The settlement does not cover up the size of the crime or the impact upon whole communities. They intentionally circumvent the law and target and steer it by race, rob (ph) them of their homes, their money, people who lost their homes could not pay for the kids' college education. Whole cities sink under the weight of foreclosed homes because of banks' behavior.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VELSHI: Now, according to the Justice Department, the money from the settlement is going to go to the borrowers who have been identified as being targeted for being put into subprime loans when they should have qualified for prime loans.

ROMANS: And it was Countrywide Financial that did it, the settlements.

VELSHI: Bank of America is trying to be clear about that. We bought a company that did this. When you buy a company, you buy their --

ROMANS: Buy all their problems.

Bank of America is now settling for the problems of Countrywide.

VELSHI: And one thing that Jesse Jackson pointed out that we have to remember is the damage is done. Countrywide was one of the parties that really got the ball rolling on this foreclosure crisis. So, giving some people some money back now while it's -- it's the way the Justice Department has to do it. A lot of damage was done by this practice.

ROMANS: Yes, Jesse Jackson said the house is gone, the neighborhood are already --

VELSHI: Yes, houses are boarded up.

ROMANS: All right. Still ahead, winter starts with a storm and airport delays are already stacking up this morning. We're going to take you to the biggest trouble spot.

VELSHI: And historically and a historical first. Why some are saying this picture is now a late breaking nomination for picture of the year. We'll explain, next.

ROMANS: And Christmas has come early for actor Kenneth Branagh, star of the movie, "My Week with Marilyn," just scored a Golden Globe and SAG Award nomination, and he's coming here to talk to us.

VELSHI: He's coming here?

ROMANS: He is.

VELSHI: I didn't know he would be in person.

ROMANS: No, no, the film is very, very good. I can't wait to hear more about his portrayal of Sir Laurence Olivier.

It's 11 minutes after the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VELSHI: I've never seen Miami with that. I mean, other than when a storm is coming in. Clouds over Miami? Partly cloudy, that looks like mostly cloudy -- 78, though.

ROMANS: It's going to be sunny and 81 later. This is just a winter warning --

VELSHI: I'm a week away from Miami.

ROMANS: You're going to Miami --

VELSHI: I'm going to Miami in a week. I'm going to --

ROMANS: All right, welcome back.

VELSHI: Wake up, Miami.

Winter is not arriving quietly. Lots of holiday travel trouble on the way as another winter storm barrels through the Rockies down into New Mexico. Even into Texas, a foot or more of snow expected in some areas.

Maureen McCann of affiliate KMGH joins us live from Denver.

You must be thinking, what is it with you CNN people who are all fascinated by snow in Denver in the winter, because we get it all the time -- right, Maureen?

(LAUGHTER)

MAUREEN MCCANN, REPORTER, KMGH: Yes, I think just because a lot of people on the East Coast really want the snow and they've been seeing these mild temperatures. But winter arrived right on time here in Denver. The solstice occurred last night at 10:30 local time. We're located out by the airport where we have a good six to seven inches on the ground with more to come. Now, the winds coming in from the northeast, so that means this is an upslope event. So, places in the foothills and in the eastern mountain to the east of divide have seen it much more than this six to seven inches.

They've seen about ten inches in Boulder and about 18 inches in other parts of Boulder County. So, we're located right along Pena Boulevard. And for those that are familiar with Denver, you know, the airport is about 25 miles from downtown. So, this road has to go about ten miles into the airport, and it's a very slow drive for what's expected to be the biggest travel day of the year going into Christmas, at least.

So, that's how things are looking for those going inbound. For those coming here, at least, you got some snow to enjoy. We've seen reports 18 inches in some of the ski areas in the front range. That's good news for those that are coming in. And once this moves out, you got nice forecast for the weekend.

VELSHI: Maureen, you're absolutely right. The reason we're obsessed with this because, in some cases, we're a little jealous. It looks like a little bit of fun out there.

MCCANN: Yes. Rightfully so.

VELSHI: Maureen McCann. Thanks so much, Maureen.

MCCANN: Absolutely.

CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR: All right. Reynolds Wolf is in the Extreme Weather Center, and we have heard a little rumor, Reynolds, that you actually have a snow forecast, a white Christmas forecast for us. Did you have a map? Did you make Ali a map?

REYNOLDS WOLF, AMS METEOROLOGIST: By popular demand, yes. He commands and we deliver.

VELSHI: You're too good to me.

WOLF: Hey, this is what happens. Well, I've got some kind of good news, kind of sort of not really, Ali. If you look at the national perspective, what we're going to see here in the United States, as we fast forward from Thursday into Friday, Saturday and into Sunday, there's a best chance of snow. A lot of the snow that's starting on the ground is going to be in the central and northern Rockies, parts of the four corners, and parts of the northeast.

To be specific for Ali, Ali, it looks like the snow might come to a screeching halt on Christmas Eve. So, Christmas Eve morning, then it kind of fizzles out, but you sure to have a nice blanket of snow. That's for you in Toronto. Ali, I think I heard you say you're going to be spending part of the holiday in Miami.

VELSHI: That's right.

WOLF: No snow for you in Miami.

VELSHI: All right. Well, that's OK with me, too.

WOLF: Yes. We can't work -- we can't do that for you.

VELSHI: We want winter snow in Toronto. We don't really want it in Miami.

WOLF: As long as we're pointing the same speed, we're in good --

VELSHI: You're on it. Thanks, my friend.

WOLF: Exactly. Hey, unfortunately, in parts of the southeast is a different flavor altogether. We're going to see the chance of some strong storms developing, guys. Take a look at this, in the parts of Alabama, Louisiana, back into Mississippi and into Alabama, especially in the late afternoon, we could see some strong storms, possibly some tornadoes, damaging winds, large hail.

In some spots, we have the low-lying areas and places with poor drainage. Flash flooding is open to certainty so just keep that in mind. The big weather maker out west still is going to rumble. We saw the live report moments ago. We're showing you the snowfall outside of Denver, at least, near the airport. More of that (inaudible).

Not only the Rockies, but into the same crystal mountains. Much of this is great news for ski country because, to be honest, they really could use the snow. This will certainly help matters. OK, guys, take a look at this, nice, cooler, dry, conditions for the northern plains. We show you the snow out west, the storms into the northeast.

In terms of the temperatures, Kansas City 36, 26 in the twin cities and your delays. Atlanta, severe weather into the afternoon. Delays also for Cincinnati, Memphis, Chicago, Houston, Charlotte, and Denver. Again, the snow, major delays possibly up to an hour. So, again, kind of a half and half for you there, Ali.

Again, we have the snow for you in Tampa -- I'm sorry. Toronto. Toronto. Not so much in Miami or Tampa, for that matter.

VELSHI: I'm getting a lot of tweets now from Tampa, all of a sudden. What? A white Christmas in Tampa? Reynolds, you're excellent. Thank you, my friend.

WOLF: All right. The end of problem.

ROMANS: Here's a time honored navy tradition. The first kiss after a ship's return. A late breaking nomination of image of the year, perhaps. For the first time on record, a same-sex couple was chosen for the homecoming kiss. Petty Officer 2nd Class Marissa Gaeta and her partner reunited in Virginia. She won the traditional kiss during a raffle.

VELSHI: Again, that's the part that gets me. I didn't know that the raffle was a raffle.

ROMANS: I didn't either.

VELSHI: Yes.

All right. Now that the holiday travel rush is under way, guess which city is the most popular destination for New Year's Eve. This would have surprised me. Orlando.

ROMANS: Disney, of course.

VELSHI: Would you have guessed that?

ROMANS: Disney, yep.

VELSHI: I would have said New York. According to the travel website, Travelocity, people, apparently, like to party near the theme parks. As Christine said, Disney, Universal Studios. Number two on the list is New York City famous for the ball drop in Times Square.

ROMANS: All right.

VELSHI: I never want to see the Times Square ball drop because it means I'm working, right?

(LAUGHTER)

ROMANS: That's true.

VELSHI: I always like to tell the folks here that I'm going to be far away. You know, I'm doing (ph) for days ahead. I'm going to be in Toronto. I'm going to be in. Because if they're here, they're (INAUDIBLE), hey, do you want to work New Year's Eve?

(LAUGHTER)

VELSHI: We need somebody to be in Time's Square.

ROMANS: They got Anderson -- he's got --

VELSHI: Anderson's got it. Yes, he keeps under control.

ROMANS: He can do it.

Up next, we're going to check the early morning markets.

Plus, the fast food burger wars. Which chain is about to dethrone Burger King?

VELSHI: What?

ROMANS: It's 20 minutes after the hour.

VELSHI: What?!

(LAUGHTER)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VELSHI: Twenty-three minutes after the hour. "Minding Your Business" this morning.

In just a few minutes, the initial jobless claim's report will be released. It is expected to show that 380,000 unemployment claims were filed for the first time last week. We're also expecting a new estimate on the third quarter GDP, and later, a new consumer confidence report.

Ahead of these economic reports, the markets are expected to open higher. Right now, the Dow, NASDAQ, and S&P 500 futures are up this morning.

Hey, when it comes to the burger wars, McDonald's still number one, but looks like there's a new number two in town. According to the "Wall Street Journal," Wendy's is set to unseat Burger King as the second largest fast food chain in the U.S. Wendy's up more than one percent this year. Burger King down nearly four percent.

Verizon wireless said its 4G network is back up and running. The service was disrupted yesterday making it difficult for customers to make calls, send and receive messages text messages. This was the second nationwide outage in as many weeks for Verizon's 4G network.

It's time for workers -- it's go time for workers at U.P.S. Today is the company's busiest shipping day of the year. U.P.S. says it will deliver nearly 26 million packages today. That's almost 300 packages a second. That is a million more than it delivered last year. U.P.S. attributes the increase to more folks shopping online.

And returning those unwanted gifts is probably the most common post-holiday tradition. This year, according to the National Retail Federation, Americans will return more than $46 billion worth of merchandise. That is a record, and experts say many shoppers are already returning purchases to take advantage of additional markdowns.

And today is the drawing for the biggest lottery in the world. They call it El Gordo. It's an annual Christmas tradition in Spain. This year, the total payout is $3.3 billion with a B. It is rare for anyone to win the entire jackpot since one ticket costs about $260. Most folks just purchase a tenth of a ticket for $26. Still, hundreds of people are standing in line, waiting to buy tickets this morning. So, good luck to all of you.

AMERICAN MORNING is back right after the break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's a such tight confines in here and to have to walk in the front to the back of the bus with people just beating the hell out of you, what must have he gone through?

ROMANS (voice-over): What happened to Florida A&M drum major, Robert Champion? He died more than a month ago in a suspected hazing, but, still, no one has been charged.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VELSHI: Welcome back to AMERICAN MORNING. Time now for your top stories. Twenty-nine minutes after the hour.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

VELSHI (voice-over): A wave of coordinated deadly bombings in Baghdad. Just days after the last U.S. troops left the country, police say four car bombs and nine roadside bombs went off within two hours of each other, one right outside a school. The attacks killing at least 63 people and wounding close to 200.

ROMANS: Nine days now until a tax hike, and house Republicans walking out of an effort by Democrats to force a vote on extending the payroll tax for two months. They want a full year or no deal. There is no resolution in sight this morning, even after President Obama spent an afternoon on the phone with Congressional leaders on both sides in both Houses.

VELSHI: Wal-Mart recalling a batch of Enfamil newborn baby formula after a 10-day-old Missouri boy died from a rare bacterial infection. Officials are testing the formula and other environmental factors. The formula's maker, Mead Johnson Nutrition, says the batch tested negative for the bacteria before it was shipped.

ROMANS: Medical examiners say hazing victim, Robert Champion, was so badly beaten he looked like he'd been in a car accident. The drum major at Florida A&M University's final autopsy was released yesterday. Police have been investigating his death for more than a month, but still, no arrests have been made. What's taking so long?

(END VIDEOTAPE)

ROMANS (on-camera): CNN's George Howell is live in Atlanta this morning. Still undergoing and doing an investigation, no question. There an awful lot of people to question to get their accounts.

GEORGE HOWELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Christine, Ali, good morning. Fair to say, this is a complicated case with a lot of moving parts to it. We know for a fact that there were at least 30 people on the bus when Robert Champion was killed. So we turned to someone who understands intricate, complex cases like this to get an understanding of the questions police are asking to find out who did this.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

HOWELL: On a tour bus parked outside an Orlando hotel November 19th, Florida A&M drum major Robert Champion died after a vicious beating. Investigators say it was a homicide that resulted from hazing.

MIKE BROOKS, HLN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: You look at a bus like this, the narrow aisles, the seats so close together, the ceiling. It's just such tight confines in here. And to have to walk from the front to the back of the bus with people just beating the hell out of you, what must he have gone through?

HOWELL: We turned to HLN law enforcement analyst Mike Brooks to take us through the mind of investigators trying to piece together what happened to the 26-year-old victim before someone placed this 911 call.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Is he breathing?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We don't know if he's breathing or not, but we need to get an ambulance ASAP.

HOWELL: How do you determine the level of culpability, who did what?

BROOKS: That's a great question. And as a law enforcement officers, I want to know, who were the ones delivering the blows, the serious blows? Was there one person who delivered the most blows that caused his death? We don't know. Were there other people that might not have been involved at all?

HOWELL: Band members who spoke to CNN say it may have been the result of a hazing ritual called crossing bus C, where the victim walks backwards from the front of the bus to the back while being beaten repeatedly by fellow band members.

BROOKS: Investigators have their work cut out for them because they have to interview everyone, but this bus is a crime scene. What happened? Where did it happen on this bus when he was being beaten with fists, maybe with musical instruments? Those are things law enforcement has to find out exactly what happened.

HOWELL: Robert Champion died of significant rapid blood loss due to blunt force trauma, according to the autopsy report, the victim of a severe beating. And with so many possible witnesses on the bus --

BROOKS: I find it hard to believe that that much was going on inside the bus, if they were beating him so viciously inside that bus, then somebody on the outside didn't hear something, didn't see something.

HOWELL: Brooks says it's a complicated investigation to determine exactly what happened in the moments leading up to Robert Champion's death.

BROOK: Did somebody try to stop this? Did somebody say, he's had enough, knock it off? Did that happen? Only the people on the bus know.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HOWELL: And that will be the new headline in this case when police make an arrests. Again, the Orlando Sheriff's office and the Florida department of law enforcement jointly investigating this case and now more than one month since Robert champion was killed. Ali, Christine.

ROMANS: George, thank you so much.

Just in, the Labor Department says that 364,000 jobless claims were filed for the very first time last week.

VELSHI: We had numbers in the 400,000 for a long time.

ROMANS: This is the lowest number since April of 2008. So anything below that 400,000 level shows you layoffs are slowing and that you have more health in the labor market.

VELSHI: That's indicative of what we've seen in the last few months. We've seen what seems to be a slightly growing. And all the things out there that you need to be concerned about, jobless numbers are the biggest deal. You know, jobs are the most important. We do have some other news, as well.

ROMANS: The economy grew slightly slower in the third quarter than we thought. This is the third revision from the government -- 1.8 percent. People thought it was about two percent. We know there was some kind of summer, early fall slowdown.

VELSHI: Europe was starting to affect us at that point. Not entirely unexpected, but it is lower than we expected. Keep that in mind places like India are growing in the range of seven percent and China growing above nine percent. So we're growing at 1.8 percent. And Europe, by the way, is probably not growing at all economically, maybe zero and maybe in recession.

ROMANS: Most people think the U.S. economy is doing better. The third economy is a rearview mirror, and a lot of people think that the fourth quarter, as you can see from this jobless claims report, is doing a little bit better.

VELSHI: Coming up next, his resume only gets more and more impressive after Kenneth Branagh is getting rave reviews and award nominations for his role in the movie "My Week with Marilyn." And the star has arrived here. He's is about to sit down with us. Do not miss this conversation. It's 35 minutes after the hour. Welcome.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VELSHI: Most days by now I'm yelling at you to get up in New York. Don't worry about it. It's two days before Christmas. If you're watching us in TV, just stay in bed. It's 53 degrees. It's nice and going to get to 55 today, sunny. Nice day to walk around. Call the boss and tell him you're done for the week.

ROMANS: Go get a movie "My Week with Marilyn." The new movie showcasing the late screen siren back in the 1950s, but there's more to Marilyn Monroe than we know. It's a history of insecurity and tension on the set.

VELSHI: The movie shows a clash of acting approaches between Monroe and the famous actor and director Sir Laurence Olivier. Take a look.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Cut! You wait. Marilyn, please, tell me how I can help you.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't know who else -- I don't know who she is.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You have had all of your gift, we all are.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: She's not real.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Then why not simply rely on your natural talents.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VELSHI: A bit of sarcasm perhaps in there. We're joined now by Kenneth Branagh.

ROMANS: A man with natural talents who played Sir Laurence Olivier and has also been nominated for Golden Globe for best supporting actor. We loved the film actually. And it must have been so interesting to play someone who is a real person trying to interact with another real person in your industry making a real film.

KENNETH BRANAGH, ACTOR/DIRECTOR: It was because I direct film that I've acted in and he's directing this film that he's acting in with Marilyn Monroe come to England to meet with a bunch of actors. Michelle Williams is Marilyn Monroe and comes to England and works with a bunch of British actors. We filmed where the original movie that they tried to make was filled on the same sound stage. Michelle had the same dressing room as Marilyn. We did scenes in the same corridor. It did feel at the time that you were going back in time. It was very, very immersive. It feels like you take it back to a pocket of life in the 1956 in the movie. And in England that was quite magical.

VELSHI: Tell us about the story, because I think sympathy for Marilyn Monroe is quite generational. To some people now she's like Lindsey Lohan. People say why can't you just get your stuff together? But this movie seems to give her some layers and nuances and complexity.

ROMANS: She comes off more sympathetic in this film.

BRANAGH: I think so, and I think it's because Michelle Williams, who plays her quite wonderfully in addition to presenting the screen siren, you know, you mentioned the physical transformation for Michelle who is quite petite in her way and becomes this hourglass structure --

ROMANS: How do they do that?

BRANAGH: They went behind a closed door and came out many hours later and she looked very voluptuous. But because she is such a terrific actress, she lets you see in moments when she is vulnerable and present to the world this image that is Marilyn Monroe and sense of isolation. She was the first proto-super-celebrity where people liked the work that she did, but they were just a fascinated by her private life, which was pretty troubling.

ROMANS: It's one of my favorite scenes where you say, teaching Marilyn Monroe how to act is like teaching Urdu to a badger. You say it with such -- do you think that was true about Marilyn Monroe?

BRANAGH: That is a real line.

ROMANS: He said that?

BRANAGH: He absolutely said it.

ROMANS: Was he right?

BRANAGH: I don't know that he was right, but his exasperation was at the pitch, the producer's remark like that. There was a sense that when two worlds collide, these two people. University recognized that the greatest actor in the world and she the greatest movie star in the world in this light comedy should have produced something terrific. The film itself is not bad at all, but onset, a nightmare.

VELSHI: So, here's the thing. I don't know whether you or Michelle Williams had a tougher part because you're an accomplished director frustrated with an actor who is not doing her job. Michelle Williams an accomplished actor who is playing an actor who is really struggling.

BRANAGH: It's funny. It's well put. She had had to find that way of having difficulty for the character without feeling difficult inside the role herself.

VELSHI: That's an acting accomplishment.

BRANAGH: Yes, exactly. This film demanded of the people who were playing real people that they be technically very precise in the way they mimic or impersonate those people but then play them as real people. You had to abandon all that and then play the scene as naturally as we would.

VELSHI: That's just a fun thing to watch, aside from the plot.

BRANAGH: It's very absorbing. You look at all the movies. And Michelle was encyclopedic. She could do the voice and shimmying walk. They said you had to tie your knees together in order to have that feeling that she was on wheels. Olivier had a very particular walk, and I have to have my eyebrows plucked and a prosthetic chin piece.

VELSHI: I think your chin is fine.

BRANAGH: My chin is OK, but his is rather more sculpted.

ROMANS: These are such famous people that you could run the risk of being Kenneth Branagh and playing Laurence Olivier and Michelle Williams playing a Marilyn Monroe. When I watched it, you were both those characters to me very, very quickly. That is a real risk.

BRANAGH: Thank you. It is a risk, and it's thrilling to hear you say that. People responded to being taken down to this journey back in time. Whether it's Michelle or Ken and they're the kind of, the sense, I hope, that Simon Curtis, this wonderful director gives with great ensemble cast is basically that you -- you're there and there's authenticity. Because in theory, we've all been in those situations, and I hope we bring some reality to the back stage.

ROMANS: You're up for awards. When you're making the film, do you get a tingle saying, oh, wow, we could get some accolades for this one?

BRANAGH: To be truthful, you never feel that, but you do have moments, as I did on day one, when Michelle walked on as Marilyn for the first time. Well, Judi Dench was standing next to me and grabbed me by the arm and said, oh, my gosh. I think she thinks this is going to be good. I'll take her word any time.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VELSHI: A hearty congratulations. It's well worth seeing. Kenneth Branagh is in "My Week with Marilyn." He's also a Golden Globe nominee for best supporting actor.

ROMANS: More morning headlines ahead. Also ahead, comedian Will Ferrell. What a morning. It's 45 minutes after the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ROMANS: It's 46 minutes after the hour. Here are your "Morning Headlines".

Good news from the job market. The Labor Department announcing just 364,000 jobless claims were filed for the very first time last week. That is the lowest level since April of 2008, though the GDP for the third quarter was revised down slightly to 1.8 percent. Many economists expect it picked up, though in the fourth quarter.

Markets open in 45 minutes. Right now I'm looking at a positive open. The Dow, NASDAQ and S&P 500 futures are all in positive territory.

A wave of coordinated and deadly bombing in Baghdad just days after the last U.S. troops left. The attacks killing at least 63 people and wounding close to 200.

Nine days now until a tax hike for millions of working Americans and House Republicans walking out of an effort by Democrats to force a vote on extending the payroll tax. House Speaker Boehner saying members still want it extended for the whole year, not just two months.

Holiday travel trouble on the way: another major winter storm clobbering the Rockies and moving down into New Mexico and even Texas. A foot or more is expected in some areas.

A nationwide boycott against Kim Kardashian is gaining momentum. One of the quarter million Americans signed an online petition promising not to watch her reality shows or buy any products endorsed by her. The petition says she has made a mockery of the American culture.

That's the news you need to start your day. AMERICAN MORNING back right after a break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VELSHI: Certainly acting like it is. Ok guys. Just ten minutes ago I told you to stay in bed if you're in New York. You know what; time to get up now it's ten to -- almost 10 to 9:00. 53 degrees; it's going to get up to 55. It is beautiful.

That is the Statue of Liberty. It is -- she's done shopping for Christmas. You may still have some more to do. So get out of bed.

ROMANS: All right. Welcome back "Big Stars, Big Giving" is our special series that shines a spotlight on celebrities and the causes that they support and who better to do that than CNN's very own Alina Cho.

ALINA CHO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It is the toughest assignment that I do all year long.

ROMANS: I know, you get to meet someone like Will Ferrell.

VELSHI: It is so much fun.

CHO: Yes, it is a lot of fun.

VELSHI: A funny guy but he's got the serious commitment to a particular cause.

CHO: He most certainly does. You know remember, he famously played George W. Bush on SNL and he was Ron Burgundy in "Anchorman" and children of all ages fell in love with him in the movie "Elf." We are talking about comedian Will Ferrell

He's also giving back in a very big way. And he's focusing on just one special charity close to his heart.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

WILL FERRELL, ACTOR: Stop what you're doing and listen. Cannonball.

CHO (voice-over): On the big screen and small --

FERRELL: Strategery.

CHO: Will Ferrell has won the hearts of fans everywhere by making us laugh.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 10:00 a.m., Santa's coming to town.

FERRELL: Oh my God.

CHO: Cracking jokes comes naturally to Ferrell, but surprisingly he just as easily shows a serious side.

FERRELL: A quarter of a million dollars each time.

CHO: On the set of his new movie "Dog Fight" we sat down to talked about "Cancer for College". A charity founded in 1993 by his USC fraternity brother, Craig Pollard a two-time cancer survivor. Cancer for College awards scholarship money to young cancer survivors. Ferrell is its unofficial goodwill ambassador.

(on camera): What kind of an impact does that have?

FERRELL: Well it has a huge impact especially considering that when you think about -- most of these families are just trying to survive something like this.

CHO (voice-over): Ferrell got involved early on when he was just starting his career as a new cast member on "Saturday Night Live."

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hey, Saddam.

FERRELL: Monica, you never call me anymore.

Not knowing if I was going to be fired at any moment, I think I wrote a check for $50, my first donation. Playing it very conservatively.

CHO (on camera): Faith.

(voice-over): Not long after that, Ferrell attended Cancer for College's annual golf tournament. Something, he says, changed his life.

FERRELL: When I got to meet the scholarship winners and their families, that's when the whole thing really kind of -- kind of hit me.

CHO: So Ferrell got to work donating his time and money.

FERRELL: How much did we raise?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: $300,000.

FERRELL: Wow.

CHO (on camera): You do have a megaphone that a lot of people don't have.

FERRELL: Honestly, I think that's -- the only thing fame is really good for in a way. My wife and I talk about the fact that we've gotten to experience a lot of amazing things. And we've been to the Oscars and the Golden Globes and all these fancy things that we went to (ph), but -- but those -- that one night a year where we get to give out the scholarship checks supersedes all of that.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CHO: Such a pleasure to sit down with Will Ferrell. If you haven't heard of Cancer for College you're not alone. You know it is a very small charity. And you know we were talking during the piece about how in his word what a great thing it is that he --

(CROSSTALK)

ROMANS: To focus on one thing.

CHO: You know and he said that when he first start, was first starting out he made a promise to his frat brother that he would only focus on this one charity for as long as he could. He would focus all of his efforts and all of his time and money on -- on Cancer for College because this is where he thinks he can make the most impact and -- and what a great idea.

VELSHI: Yes.

CHO: And he is making a difference. You know the founder of the charity said if we reached $5 million, $4.5 million of that is directly attributable to Will Ferrell.

VELSHI: Wow, wow that's great.

ROMANS: So it's amazing.

CHO: He really has made an impact.

Tomorrow I'm going to be sitting down with one of the biggest stars on the planet, she is Jennifer Lopez. You know it was something that happened with her newborn daughter, Emmy, she found a little bump on her head and it was a big health scare and that is what inspired her to give back. We'll be talking a little bit more about that tomorrow.

And don't miss my holiday special it's called "BIG STARS, BIG GIVING." Airs this Saturday December 24th Christmas Eve at 2:00 p.m. Eastern and again on Sunday, Christmas Day, at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time.

VELSHI: Good it's going to be fun.

ROMANS: All right, we'll watch it. Thanks Alina.

CHO: It's great.

VELSHI: All right, coming up next which viral video topped all others from YouTube in 2011. Not this guy. The top ten YouTube videos of the year coming up next. Fifty-four minutes after the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ROMANS: Good morning, Boston. As Ali says, "Get out of bed, you're late." It's fair and 51 right now. Mostly sunny, 52.

VELSHI: It does look nice in Boston this morning.

ROMANS: It's beautiful. Beautiful.

VELSHI: Welcome back. The formula for making a viral video is still the same in 2011; you need cute babies or adorable pets and things that are so bad that they're good. Who better to give us a round-up of the top ten YouTube videos of the year, but Jeanne Moos.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The thing about YouTube videos is that some you get and some seem like gibberish.

For instance in this year's top ten most viewed videos, the number five spot went to a very annoying cat. The number ten spot went to a very adorable cat. A mother cat hugging its kitten while the two of them take a cat nap. The number nine was Volkswagen's super volt commercial called "The Force".

Number eight was a cute 11-year-old Canadian singing Lady Gaga's hit. Lady Gaga was so impressed she invited Maria Aragon to sing a duet in concert.

Number seven was a dance comedy video. YouTube is the place if you want people to --

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Look at me now.

MOOS: At least 56 million people looked at the twin talking babies who seem to understand each other perfectly. Adults enjoyed adding subtitles and nominating them for best foreign language film.

Comedy music videos were popular. And we might as well acknowledge the number one video that got over 180 million views

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: -- it's Friday

MOOS: Ok. That's enough acknowledgment. But it's the video that came in at number two that is number one in my heart. Since it's my story, that's the one we're going to concentrate on.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You know what the meat drawer is, right?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. What was in there?

MOOS: There is just something riveting about the talking dog being teased.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You know the bacon that's like maple -- got maple flavoring?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The maple kind. Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, so --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I took that out and I thought, I know who would like that. Me. So I ate it.

ANDREW GRANTHAM, CREATOR, "TALKING ANIMALS": Looks like he's getting his hopes up and then they're dashed. And then he gets his hopes up again and then they're dashed again.

MOOS: Former ad agency guy, Canadian Andrew Grantham now makes a living creating and voicing talking animals. People submit thousands of videos and he adds the dialogue.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Cheese.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Wow.

MOOS: Andrew wouldn't say how much his advertising partnership with YouTube pays. But Clark the Dog now has a Facebook fan page with a joke bacon tree and a bacon T-shirt. If you're wondering --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You're kidding me.

MOOS: What he really said in dog speak.

Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VELSHI: Brilliant as only Jeanne can do.

ROMANS: That's awesome.

All right. That's it for us for today. See you again, very, very soon.

VELSHI: Yes. T.J. Holmes takes it over with the "CNN NEWSROOM". Good morning my good friend T.J.

Content and programming copyright 2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP.    ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.    This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.      

Document CNLM000020111222e7cm0002t

News; International
Deadly Bombing Wave In Baghdad; Can Petraeus Save Iraq Again?; GOP Walks Out On Tax Fight; Eight Soldiers Charged In Private's Death; Wal-Mart Pulls Formula After Death; Bank of America Settles    Discrimination  Suit; Icy Roads; What's Next in the Florida Hazing Case?; Bank of America Settles    Discrimination  Suit; Interview with Rev. Jesse Jackson; DOD, Afghan Airstrike Was Self Defense; GOP Walks Out On Payroll Tax Debate; Suit: Ariz Sheriff's Officers Shackled Pregnant Inmate

Christine Romans, Ali Velshi, Arwa Damon, Dan Lothian, Reynolds Wolf, George Howell, Mike Brooks, Gloria Borger, Brooke Baldwin      
8,425 words
22 December 2011
CNN: American Morning
CNLM
English
© 2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. All rights reserved. Prepared by CQ Transcriptions, LLC.      

CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR: The war after the war. A bloody morning in Baghdad, explosion after explosion. New fears that it could all come apart now that U.S. troops are gone.

ALI VELSHI, CNN ANCHOR: Countdown to the tax hike. The GOP walks out on talks to keep your paycheck fatter for a little longer. Both sides play hide and seek as time runs out.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Incendiary.

RON PAUL (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Because of people like you.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ROMANS: And Ron Paul getting defensive about racist newsletters written in his name from the past. Questions coming up again as he rises in the polls on this AMERICAN MORNING.

VELSHI: Good morning.

ROMANS: Good morning.

VELSHI: Good to see you.

ROMANS: You too.

VELSHI: Thursday, December the 22nd. I'm Ali Velshi along with my good old friend, Christine Romans on this AMERICAN MORNING. Welcome.

ROMANS: Welcome to all of you too.

Up first, new fears that it could be all unraveling this morning, a wave of coordinating and deadly blasts rocking Baghdad. Police say four car bombs and nine roadside bombs went off within two hours of each other.

Killing at least 63 people and wounding close to 200. This coming just a few days after the last U.S. troops left Iraq. It's the worst violence to hit that country since the political crisis erupted between Iraq's Sunni and Shiite factions.

Arwa Damon is live in Baghdad this morning. What's the latest on the ground there, Arwa?

ARWA DAMON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Christine, this is very much Iraqi's worst nightmare coming true. Not only is the government crumbling like a house of cards it would see, but also this devastating violence here in the capital.

Some of those blasts were so powerful, they shook our building and we were not that close to any of those specific locations. These explosions, happening exactly at rush hour, between 7:00 and 9:00 a.m., one of the blast taking place very close to a school just as children were arriving.

Another one was targeting very busy place in Central Baghdad. It was right in front of the Integrity Commission. Part of that building collapsed. Other explosions taking place, marketplaces, busy intersections, a very, very difficult morning for Iraqi agents.

ROMANS: Arwa, CIA Director David Petraeus just made a quick visit to Iraq. It was supposed to be a thank you tour following the U.S. withdrawal. Was there more to it than that?

DAMON: Well, we spoke to the minister of finance, who is a member of the vice president's Iraqia bloc. Remember, the vice president has those charges of terrorism being levelled against him.

And so we saw David Petraeus. He said coming and trying to encourage all sides to go back to the negotiating table. He also according to sources reported to have met with the speaker of the parliament also a member of the Iraqia bloc.

The prime minister and then traveling north to meet with the Kurds, the great concern is that there isn't any sort of political resolution to this current government crisi.

We could only end up seeing even more violence. Many people are greatly fearful that reconciliation at this stage might be near impossible. All sides so polarized at this point -- Christine.

ROMANS: Every Iraqi's worst nightmare after the troop withdrawal coming true. Thank you so much, Arwa.

VELSHI: Here in the United States, the tax fight is turning uglier with nine days until the bickering in Washington takes a bite out of your paycheck.

There's no resolution in sight this morning, even after President Obama spent an afternoon on the phone with congressional leaders on both sides of both Houses.

House Democrats tried to force a vote on the Senate's two-month extension of the payroll tax cut, but Republicans gavelled the House closed to prevent them from having a chance ignoring Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer as they walked out the door.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

REP. STENY HOYER (D-MD), MINORITY WHIP: Walking out. You're walking away, just as so many Republicans have walked away from middle class taxpayers, the unemployed and very frankly as well from those who will be seeking medical assistance from their doctors, 48 million senior citizens.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VELSHI: And in an apparent show of their willingness to reach a deal, House Speaker John Boehner held a news conference from the negotiating table, basically saying the Senate is going to have to come to him.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

REP. JOHN BOEHNER (R-OH), HOUSE SPEAKER: We're here. We're ready to work. We're looking for counterparts to sit down with us so that we can do what the president, bipartisan leaders in the House and Senate all want and that's to extend the payroll tax cut for one year.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VELSHI: Dan Lothian is live at the White House right now. Dan, the president makes the next move with an event later today. What's likely to happen?

DAN LOTHIAN, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: That's right. This is an event where the president will again lay out what's at stake here. The White House has been pointing out all week, that if, in fact, this expires, family members who make about $50,000 or so a year as a family will see about $40 less in each paycheck.

And so today the president again will be highlighting that and he will be accompanied by people who will be impacted, including some of those who have responded to this call by the White House to say what, in fact, they would do with $40.

So again this is another attempt to put pressure on House members to go ahead, bring this to a vote. This short-term extension of two months and then they can work later in the year, next year, on a longer term, a one-year deal.

That is what the president will be doing here today. It just is on top of what the president has been working on all week.

VELSHI: Talk about the president's holiday schedule. The rest of the first family is in Hawaii where the president normally spends Christmas. And there have been discussions about whether he should be there or shouldn't be there, whether it's optics. What's the president's plan?

LOTHIAN: You know, right now, that still remains up in the air. We had expected by now the president would have been in Hawaii with the first family, the rest of the first family.

But White House aides here saying the situation is still too fluid. So it's unclear if the president will even make the trip to Hawaii. What I can tell you is that he is purchasing Christmas presents so perhaps that is a hint of that he plans to go out there, give it to the first daughters.

Yesterday, he took a few moments on a scheduled trip to Alexandria, Virginia, where he went to a Best Buy store. He bought a Wii game for his daughters. He bought some gift cards. He also went to a pet shop, bought some toys for the first pet, Bo, and also picked up some pizzas. He spent about $300.

So it does appear that the president is getting ready for Christmas, but so far plans for travel to Hawaii is still up in the air.

VELSHI: Did you say he picked up some pizzas?

LOTHIAN: He picked up three large pizzas, yes.

VELSHI: If you're the president of the United States, don't you have somebody who can do that for you?

LOTHIAN: You know, I'm sure he does. And in fact, you know, when he paid, he pulled out a credit card, which I found that kind of odd. It apparently still works so not only was he picking up his own pizza, but he was paying for it over his own credit card.

VELSHI: Sometimes you have to do it to make sure the card still works. I suspect we're all going to be talking a lot the next few days. Dan Lothian at the White House.

All right, at 7:30 Eastern, Senators Dick Durbin and John McCain will join us. Durbin says Speaker Boehner has lost control of the House. McCain wants House Republicans to get in line too. He says this battle is hurting his party and it's unfair to the American people.

ROMANS: All right, alleged hazing and bullying on the battlefield. Eight U.S. soldiers are facing serious charges in connection with an apparent suicide of Private Danny Chen.

Some of the charges include dereliction of duty, maltreatment and involuntary manslaughter. Chen's family says the 19- year-old had complained about harassment dealing with racial taunts even physical abuse.

Chen was found dead in a guard tower in Afghanistan in October. It is believed he shot himself. Army officials say the investigation is ongoing and more charges could be filed.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CAPT. JOHN KIRBY, DEPUTY ASSISTANT DEFENSE SECRETARY, MEDIA OPERATIONS: Any single case of hazing or inappropriate conduct to a fellow soldier, airman, marine, sailor, coast guard member, is inappropriate and not acceptable.

Zero is the right number. We treat each other with dignity and respect. That's what this uniform requires. And when we don't, there is a justice system in place to deal with it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ROMANS: Chen's family says they are glad about the charges, but they want to see convictions. Again, their son was 19 years old.

VELSHI: Wal-Mart pulls a batch of formula from its shelves after a baby's sudden death in Missouri. The retail giant recalled Enfamil Newborn from its stores nationwide as a precaution, but only batches with the lot number ZP1K7G.

This after a 10-day-old died from a rare bacterial infection. Officials are testing other environmental factors too including the water that was used to mix the formula.

The formula's maker Meade-Johnson Nutrition says the batch tested negative for the bacteria before it was shipped. It released this statement, "We are highly confident in the safety and quality of our products and the rigorous testing we put them through. We are working with the health authorities to support their efforts to identify the source or cause of this infant's infection."

VELSHI: All right, it's 9 minutes past top of the hour. Also making news this morning, Bank of America has agreed to fork over a record $335 million to settle claims that Countrywide Financialdiscriminated against minorities at the height of the housing boom.

According to the Justice Department, Countrywide, which was acquired by Bank of America back in 2008, Countrywide steered more than 200,000 black and Hispanic borrowers into high-interest rate subprime mortgages, even though they qualified for prime loans. Money from the settlement will go to borrowers who were identified in that investigation.

Coming up in less than 30 minutes, we're going to talk to Reverend Jesse Jackson Sr. about that settlement. He is someone who has been concerned about this practice in the mortgage industry for years.

Even before the bust, he was saying, look, something fishy is going on with some of these mortgage lenders. They are pushing people who are prime lenders into subprime loans so they can make more money and this is falling along racial lines and it's not fair. We're going to talk to him about this case.

VELSHI: We'll do that in just a little bit. Right now, snow could be a factor for some people as we head into Christmas weekend. Rob Marciano is off. Fellow snow lover, Reynolds Wolf, is in the Extreme Weather Center.

We say that snow could be a factor. Is it a bad thing? It's Christmas?

REYNOLDS WOLF, AMS METEOROLOGIST: Well, I mean, it could be a bad thing if you are just trying to get somewhere in time for Christmas Eve or Christmas day, but for Christmas day itself? It's all good stuff. You got to enjoy it then.

Speaking of the winter-like weather, take a look at what happened in parts of New Hampshire yesterday, we have the video to prove the crazy stuff. People were just trying to get to the store, trying to get to work. It was nothing doing on some of roadways.

You see this big heavy Econoline van just sweeping sideways. Water back up so a lot of problems even the school bus involved with it. You know, it's this time of the year when people have to sometimes drive with the ice or the snow, if you had to pick your poison, trust me, it's always easier to drive in the snow with ice.

One of the issues can be certainly the case there in New Hampshire. For today, some of the big travel troubles may be along in parts of the grapevine. If you're traveling through parts of the southwest, California, mountain passes really tough.

We've got wind gusts today. We're expecting from 45 to 60 miles an hour so downed trees and power lines are a possibility. Another big possibility that we have in your forecast is going to be the heavy snow that we might see through parts of Colorado, Grand Junction, back towards Denver right along 70 and where it intersects with 25.

This is actually pretty good news because although we have had some very, very heavy winter weather in parts of the desert southwest into the four corners, tell you what. There are a lot of places in Denver, Colorado, a lot of places in Colorado itself where they are desperate for snow.

This will help matters. Certainly some good news. We're going to see that extend to the parts of the Sangre de Cristo Mountains. As we wrap things up, one thing we really have to mention for today is why you don't keep a real sharp eye on parts of the southeast.

Because later this afternoon we might have a possibility of some strong storms and perhaps even some tornadoes that can cause some widespread backups, and we're going to have more on those backups and those flight delays coming up later this morning. Let's send it back to you in New York, guys.

VELSHI: Reynolds, thank you so much. We look forward to speaking with you for the rest of the morning as people get ready for their Christmas travel.

ROMANS: All right, a shocking new details in the latest autopsy report for suspected hazing victim Robert Champion. The Florida A & M student, he suffered injuries so brutal, it looked like he was the victim of a car accident. More details on that coming up.

VELSHI: And Chinese hackers targeting American businesses and the Chamber of Commerce. What they are looking for and why it could be costing us billions.

ROMANS: And Ron Paul walks out on an interview with our Gloria Borger when asked about racist newsletter written in his name that he may want to keep in the past. It's 13 minutes past the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VELSHI: Welcome back. Florida medical examiners have released the final autopsy report on the death of the Florida AMU University drum major Robert Champion. The details are even more shocking than the first round was. Experts say Champion was beaten so severely that his muscles were virtually destroyed. They say his body looked like it suffered a car accident, a massive seizure, or torture.

ROMANS: Oh. Champion's death has been ruled a homicide, the result of hazing. And it's been more than a month since the investigation started and still no one has been arrested or charged. So what's taking so long?

CNN's George Howell is live in Atlanta. And clearly there must have been a lot of people who were witnesses to this so why are there -- why are there no arrests here?

GEORGE HOWELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: And precisely for that reason. Clear to say there are a lot of moving parts to this investigation. We know, for fact, that there were at least 30 people on the bus when Robert Champion was killed.

So we turned to a person who understands large-scale investigations like this to get an understanding of the questions police are asking to find out who did this.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

HOWELL (voice-over): It happened on a tour bus parked outside an Orlando hotel, November 19th. Florida A&M drum major Robert Champion died after a vicious beating. Investigators say it was a homicide that resulted from hazing.

MIKE BROOKS, HLN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: You look at a bus like this, the narrow aisles, the seats are close together, the ceiling. It's just such tight confines in here, and to have to walk from the front to the back of the bus, with people just beating the hell out of you, what must have he gone through?

HOWELL: We turned to HLN Law Enforcement Analyst Mike Brooks to take us into the minds of investigators trying to piece together what happened to the 26-year-old victim before someone placed this 911 call.

911 OPERATOR (via telephone): Is he breathing?

CALLER (via telephone): We don't know if he's breathing or not but we need to get and ambulance ASAP.

911 OPERATOR: I have help on the way already.

HOWELL (on camera): How do you determine the level of culpability? Who did what?

BROOKS: That's a great question. And as a law enforcement officer, I want to know who were the ones who were delivering the blows, the serious blows. Or is there one person who delivered the most blows that caused (INAUDIBLE) and caused his death? We don't know. Other people who might not have been involved at all.

HOWELL (voice-over): Band members who spoke to CNN say it may have been the result of a hazing ritual called Crossing Bus "C," where the victim walks backwards from the front of the bus to the back while being beaten repeatedly by fellow band members.

BROOKS: Investigators have their work cut out for them because they've got to interview everyone. But this bus is a crime scene. What happened? Where did it happen on this bus when he was being beaten with fists, maybe with musical instruments? Those are things law enforcement has to find out exactly what happened.

HOWELL: Robert Champion died of significant rapid blood loss due to blunt force trauma according to the autopsy report the victim of a severe beating. And with so many possible witnesses on the bus --

BROOKS: I find it hard to believe that if that much was going on inside the bus, that they were beating him so viciously inside that bus, that somebody on the outside didn't hear something, didn't see something.

HOWELL: Brooks says it's a complicated investigation to determine exactly what happened in the moments leading up to Robert Champion's death.

BROOKS: Did anybody try to stop this? Did anybody say, hey, he's had enough, he's had enough, knock it off? Did that happen? Only the people in the bus know.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HOWELL: It has been now more than a month since Robert Champion was killed in that bus. Both the Florida Department of Law Enforcement and the Orlando Sheriff's Office are jointly investigating this case at this point, Ali, Christine. No arrests have been made.

ROMANS: All right. George, thank you so much. George Howell in Atlanta.

VELSHI: The FAA, Federal Aviation Administration, is releasing new pilot fatigue rules. Every pilot must have at least a 10-hour rest period before reporting for flight duty and they must have an opportunity for eight hours of uninterrupted sleep during that time.

Now, these changes were sparked by a plane crash that you'll remember in Buffalo, New York in 2009. Fifty people died. Investigators conclude that pilot fatigue was a factor in that accident. The new rules will take effect in two years. That part strikes me as interesting why it would take two years for them to get that into place.

ROMANS: All right. A time-honored Navy tradition, the first kiss after a ship's return. For the first time on record, a same-sex couple was chosen for the homecoming kiss. Petty Officer Second Class Marissa Gaeta and her partner reunited in Virginia. She won the traditional kiss during a raffle. Gaeta spent 80 days at sea at the USS Oak Hill for training in Central America.

VELSHI: So the interesting part to me is that you win the kiss in a raffle. I didn't know that.

ROMANS: Who knew?

VELSHI: Still to come in AMERICAN MORNING, investigators track down some of that missing money from MF Global. We'll tell you where it turned up.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ROMANS: Welcome back. "Minding Your Business" this morning.

U.S. stock futures are higher after a quiet day yesterday. The Dow and S&P 500 just barely ending the day in positive territory. Investors were concerned that Europe's banks were in more trouble than originally thought.

But two hours from now, we're going to get a fresh read on jobs. The initial jobless claims report is expected to show that 380,000 unemployment claims were filed for the very first time last week. That was a good sign for the jobs market any time that number is below 400,000. So we'll look for another week of slowing (ph) layoff.

We now know the -- excuse me -- the housing bust was much worse than we originally thought. The National Association of Realtors, that's the trade lobby that represents the housing market, it reports that over the past five years actually existing home sales were 14.3 percent worse than it had originally reported. That's because some properties were listed by the NAR more than once and in some cases, new home sales were also counted. So that terrible housing bust worst than the housing industry admitted.

Investigators who are trying to track down the missing $1.2 billion in customer funds missing after the collapse of MF Global. They say that some of that money could be in the U.K. They've identified about $700 million that was transferred to England in the days before the firm's collapse. But investigators warn that getting that money back could be a long and drawn-out process.

Shares of R.I.M., the maker of BlackBerry, closed up 10 percent following rumors of a takeover. According to the "Wall Street Journal," Microsoft and Nokia were plotting to join forces to buy R.I.M. Reuter's also reported Amazon was considering a bid. But analyst tells CNNMoney the rumors don't make sense given BlackBerry's pretty poor sales lately.

And returning those unwanted gift is probably the most common post holiday tradition, right? This year according to the National Retail Federation, Americans will return more than $46 billion worth of merchandise. That's a record. And experts say many shoppers are already returning purchases to take advantage of additional markdowns.

AMERICAN MORNING will be right back after the break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

GLORIA BORGER, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL ANALYST (on camera): These things are pretty incendiary, you know, the --

RON PAUL, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Because of people like you. Goodbye.

ROMANS (voice-over): Ron Paul getting defensive, cutting short an interview with our own Gloria Borger. What's the story behind the racist newsletters written in his name on this AMERICAN MORNING?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VELSHI: Good morning. Welcome back. It's 29 minutes after the hour. Time for your top stories and this one is just in.

The Defense Department investigation into an air strike that killed 24 Pakistani troops back in November has found that U.S. Forces acted in self-defense. It's a decision that will likely further complicate relations between Washington and Islamabad. That's because Pakistan's military has repeatedly insisted that the air strike near the Afghan border was deliberate.

ROMANS: Also topping the news, a wave of coordinated and deadly bombings in Baghdad just days after the last U.S. troops left. Police say four car bombs and nine roadside bombs went off within two hours of each other, killing at least 63 people and wounding close to 200.

VELSHI: Nine days now until a tax hike and House Republicans walking out of an effort by Democrats to force a vote on extending the payroll tax. There's no resolution in sight this morning even after President Obama spent an afternoon on the phone with congressional leaders on both sides in both houses.

ROMANS: All right. Bank of America, the largest bank in this country, has agreed to pay a record $335 million to settle a discrimination lawsuit.

VELSHI: You remember, that Bank of America bought Countrywide. In the suit, charged that Countrywide Financial, which is based in California, discriminated against minorities, not by not giving them loans, but by steering them toward high-risk, higher interest rate subprime mortgages from 2004 to 2008, even though they qualified for less risky, lower interest rate prime loans.

Joining us now is the Reverend Jesse Jackson who has talked about this for years.

Reverend Jackson, you spoke to Christine about it back in 2006, I think.

ROMANS: Yes.

VELSHI: We spoke about it. You said that they were doing this. Now, there's been a settlement. What do you think?

REV. JESSE JACKSON, PRESIDENT, RAINBOW/PUSH COALITION: The settlement does not cover the size the crime or the impact upon whole communities. We need to congratulate Attorney General Lisa Madigan for her determinative work to bring it to justice. But in some sense, we need to stop redlining. To stop redlining, we got Community Reinvestment Act.

They intentionally circumvent the law and target and steer by race to rob people of their homes, their money. People who lost their homes could not pay for their kids' college education. Whole cities sank on the weight of foreclosed homes because of bank's behavior.

ROMANS: You know, Reverend Jackson, you said back as early as 2005 and 2006, you were saying to us when you were watching this happen. So, in Washington, you were saying the best economy we have ever seen.

And you were saying -- have you gone into some of these neighborhoods? People are losing the American Dream? The black middle class is being decimated by some of these housing practices.

Now, it's taken six years for $335 million settlement. But many of these families have already been wiped out, knocked down a rung, haven't they?

JACKSON: Well, they have lost their credit rating, for example. Lost their dreams, most of them, black and brown wealth was in home ownership, so people who lost their homes are driven into poverty. Cities lost their tax base, which undermined public education.

And the banks made so much money. They made money on the original loan. They made money on private mortgage insurance. They made money on the -- on the bailout. They made money on the foreclosure.

I mean, they never stopped making money, so the -- yes, they have given -- given how much money they have made. This really is the cost of doing business. It's not really deterrent.

We need to restructure banks, not just refortify them. This is the time for bank reform, also on some sense real time to look at the Glass-Steagall Act. We cannot just refortify these banks. We must restructure these banks.

VELSHI: You know, Jesse Jackson, we hear from people, you hear from them too, that right now the situation is that why we are fortifying banks, a lot of people can't get homes. You must have a much higher credit rating to get a home loan, to get a car loan. And on some levels, we didn't want banks just giving loans and pushing loans on people.

So, where is this middle ground between where we are now, where banks are overly cautious and where we were in this period that we are talking about with these Countrywide loans, where they were not only overly cautious, they were putting people at risk? Where should we be?

JACKSON: Well, now, they're holding capital -- I mean, they got bailed out without links to lending or reinvestment. People got locked out. There must be some plans for community restoration and reconstruction.

I'm here in Detroit today -- 100,000 plus homes abandoned on vacant lots. Some government, some deal between HUD and banks to restore homes. If you look at -- if you begin to remove boards, put in window panes, begin to rebuild houses, put people back to work. Revive a tax base, begin to educate children, the ramifications of the bank store robbery has been devastating.

And just to pay $300 million, given the size of it does not deal with the homeowners who need to be restored, the citizens that have been sucked in in this avalanche.

ROMANS: You know, that takes money, though, you know? And if you have seen Washington, they can't even agree on how to pay for postage stamp these days. That's got us thinking --

JACKSON: I'm not convinced of that, you know? I mean, but the government needs to pay not to restore, or you pay for deterioration.

VELSHI: It's one way or the other. That's a good point.

JACKSON: The reconstruction stops the destruction.

VELSHI: You've got some influence in Washington, Reverend. Your son is a congressman. I'm sure you talk to him about this.

By the way, congratulations, just celebrated 40 years with the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition.

JACKSON: Thank you. I have been blessed. I went to jail in July 1960, 51 years ago, and began with Reverend King this month, 46 years ago coming out of Selma. And this year, 40 years, (INAUDIBLE)

By the way, you and Sister Romans, your new book is well-worth reading.

VELSHI: Thank you.

ROMANS: Thank you.

VELSHI: We appreciate you, Reverend. Thanks for getting up early for us this morning. I know you got up early every day anyway.

Reverend Jesse Jackson, the founder and the president of the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition. And he did talk to us about this in great detail. He said there's bad things happening in how people are getting their loans.

ROMANS: He was right. And it's taken several years and $335 million now to settle it.

All right. The game of leap frog continues in the GOP race. This time, it's Ron Paul leading a new poll in Iowa in some potentially ugly things bubbling up about Ron Paul's past.

VELSHI: He's been hammered with questions about racist newsletters that were written under his name years ago. Here's an example of one, an article criticizing President Reagan for signing legislation approving the creation of the federal Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday, complaining, quote, "We can thank him for our annual Hate Whitey Day."

He became very bothered about this when I asked him about a couple of days ago right here on AMERICAN MORNING. Listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VELSHI: I guess as you get closer to being president of the United States, folks want to know that you don't really dislike black people and people with AIDS and things like that. I get what you are saying --

REP. RON PAUL (R-TX), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Why don't they -- excuse me. Why don't they concentrate on every word I've ever said, every speech I have ever given, every conference I have ever gone to?

VELSHI: Right.

PAUL: And maybe -- maybe that's where -- maybe my beliefs are more important than, you know, stirring this up.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ROMANS: Yesterday, Gloria brought it up to him, and then he bailed on the subject.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

GLORIA BORGER, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL ANALYST: So, you read them, but you didn't do anything about it at the time?

PAUL: I never read that stuff. I never read it. I was probably aware of it 10 years after it was written, and it's been going on 20 years, people have pestered me about this, and CNN does every single time. So, when are you going to wear yourself out?

BORGER: Well, it's a legitimate -- wouldn't you say -- you know, is it legitimate? I mean, is it a legitimate question to ask that someone went out in your name?

PAUL: And when you get the answer, it's legitimate that you sort of take the answers I get. You know what the answer is? I didn't write them, I didn't read them at the time, and I disavow them. That is the answer.

BORGER: But you made money off of it?

PAUL: If you know I made money on it, you know more about my finances than I do.

BORGER: Do you know that you didn't? I mean --

PAUL: I don't even know what you're talking about. I mean, you know, if -- it was published for 10 years, so if that was 1 percent of all of the newsletter, I made money off talking about gold stocks, I think you are confused.

BORGER: Well, it's just a question. I mean, it's legitimate. It's legitimate. These things are pretty incendiary, you know?

PAUL: Because of people like you.

BORGER: No, no, no, no. Come on. Some of the stuff was very incendiary and, you know, saying that in 1993, the Israelis were responsible for the bombing of the World Trade Center, that kind of stuff. So --

PAUL: Goodbye.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VELSHI: They were incendiary.

ROMANS: So, this is a newsletter.

VELSHI: It's a newsletter, went to 7,000 or 8,000 people with his name on it. It was very clear it was his name. Now, Ron -- I asked him, he said six or eight people might have been involved.

ROMANS: Somebody else was writing these newsletters for him.

VELSHI: That's what he said. So, I asked him if he could identify these six or eight people and we can interview them. And he declined. These were sold newsletters, so there was money to be made off of them.

And I think it's fair to say. We get a lot of tweets. We got of people saying you're unfair to Ron Paul. How many times have you interviewed him?

ROMANS: Dozens.

VELSHI: Countless times and we talked about Federal Reserve and the deficit and the gold standard. We talk about stuff with Ron Paul, everything he wants to talk about. So, I think it's a legitimate question. We wouldn't get away with writing something under our name and then not explaining how it got written under our name.

ROMANS: So, he's disavowing it.

VELSHI: He's disavowing it.

ROMANS: He knows who wrote it, but he's not going to tell everybody who wrote it.

VELSHI: Correct.

ROMANS: And it's ancient history and he doesn't agree with it.

VELSHI: It's 20 years old. But as I said to him on TV, as you run for president, you go up in the polls, people shine bright liens on all sorts of things they don't otherwise care about.

ROMANS: And that's why he may not have been talking about it for a while. But he's in the lead in Iowa according to some polls and so now, closer you get to the presidency, the more scrutiny.

VELSHI: Yes.

ROMANS: All right. Coming up, Chinese hackers top America's top business groups in one of the boldest cases of digital espionage ever. We're going to tell you what these spies are looking for.

It's 39 minutes after the hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ROMANS: Welcome back.

It's called digital espionage, Chinese hackers breached the online defenses of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce last year, accessing information about its 3 million members and stealing thousands of e- mails. It was one of the boldest infiltrations ever. Cyber attacks like this cost the U.S. economy billions every year.

Joe Pappalardo is a senior news editor of "Popular Mechanics." Their cover story this month is about hack attacks from foreign countries. And Joe joins me now.

Did I say it right? Pappalardo?

JOE PAPPALARDO, SENIOR NEWS EDITOR, POPULAR MECHANICS: Pappalardo.

ROMANS: There you go. Thanks.

Let me talk about this most recent report about the Chamber of Commerce. What is it that hackers, Chinese hackers in particular, are looking for from American companies?

PAPPALARDO: Well, in this case, it's jut broken, and like most of the victims are not eager to talk about what was taken if they even know. But --

ROMANS: By the way, our computer systems are not impervious to Chinese hackers. You don't want to really admit it.

PAPPALARDO: No one is impervious to Chinese hackers is one of the takeaways from our reporting. But in this case, they took a lot of e-mails, they took a lot of information from all of the members, and that can be used from further attacks, even if the information that they got from the chamber isn't immediately useful.

ROMANS: What kind of hacking are we talking about here? What kind of hacking are we -- I mean, I know I get e-mails all the time from my I.T. department that's not my I.T. department, or I get e- mails all the time through social networks, they're saying click on this, and I don't. These are all hack attacks.

Is this the way it looks when you're talking about corporate espionage?

PAPPALARDO: Very often, yes. I mean, this sort of classic spear fishing scenario where you get an e-mail that looks vaguely familiar, maybe there's key words that you may be lulled into feeling comfortable with you click onto a Web site and the malware is in the system, and everyone connected to you is now infected.

ROMANS: So, who is doing it? And why did -- I mean, in the U.S./China commission report, quadrennial defense review, and all kinds of big government reports, they're always talking about state- sponsored hacking, as being something that is an issue for national security and corporate security. It's the same thing.

PAPPALARDO: Right. I mean, one of the problems is that the attackers have what it appears to be from all accounts. And what the White House and other people are saying is a state-sponsored coordinated attack to take our intellectual property and spy on us. And the defense is a bunch of private industries in America, so you can't get a -- the same kind of coordinated defense as the attacker. The playing field is not really level.

They use it in a number of bad interesting ways, sometimes, to low bid on international contracts that that has occurred, to get, you know, -- to steal the research and development so they don't have to do those costs up front.

They can sort of press fast forward on military program, for example. And, they won't have to do their research by themselves, and they can really get a leap ahead that way.

ROMANS: You're reporting, I think you even had an example of a company that was underbid by just like $1,000 or something.

PAPPALARDO: Right. Right.

ROMANS: And later on they find out, wait a minute, you know, they knew. They knew what we were going to bid because they've been reading our stuff.

PAPPALARDO: And they know the numbers and know the strategy, and they can excel that way. And, it's cheating to win, but at the same time, you know, that's -- you know --

ROMANS: The thing that really is frustrating about it is we're told how we can't compete, and we have this new global world and globalization. Americans have to learn how to compete better, and we have the higher costs of labor and all the stuff and higher costs of regulation, but that's just outright cheating. I mean, that's just cheating. It's not a fair game.

PAPPALARDO: You know, American companies are accused of doing similar things, and we highlight --

ROMANS: So, everyone is cheating.

PAPPALARDO: Everyone is cheating, but they're just really, really good at it.

ROMANS: All right. Thank you so much, Joe Pappalardo. It's nice to see you. Senior news editor at "Popular Mechanics."

PAPPALARDO: Thanks for having me.

ROMANS: Thanks so much.

ROMANS: Ali.

VELSHI: Thank you.

Still to come on AMERICAN MORNING, leaving office for many in Washington is the first step to making some big bucks. I'm going to explain it to you.

And later, he captivated audiences as Sir Laurence Olivier in the movie, "My Week with Marilyn." Kenneth Branagh will stop by AMERICAN MORNING to talk about his recent Golden Globe nomination and what is next in his career and his movie if you haven't seen it.

It is 47 minutes after the hour. You're watching AMERICAN MORNING with Christine Romans and me. It's a busy morning. Stay with us. We're coming right back.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

BROOKE BALDWIN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Jason Messier (ph) redefines a celebrity junky.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I make celebrity portraits out of their actual crash and garbage.

BALDWIN: Jason matches the celebrity with materials that reflects them.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Like Florence Henderson sent me her junk to do her portrait, but then, I also used like Wesson bottles for the background. I just try to represent the person as best I can with the objects.

BALDWIN: It can take Jason up to 50 hours to finish a piece.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I try to map it out. I guess, the best way to describe it is like a jigsaw puzzle where, like, I'll try a little piece and I'll just like see where it's going to fit.

BALDWIN: Choosing subjects is easy.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: My favorite are more like people who are cartoon-type people like Amy Sedaris, Phyllis Diller. I just like the idea of more cartoony people because I can go more from that.

BALDWIN: His dream portrait?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I would say like Lindsay Lohan. If she could send me bag of stuff or just more like all of cigarette butts or something.

BALDWIN: Up next, more portraits and possibly a coffee table book.

Brooke Baldwin, CNN, Atlanta.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VELSHI: Ten minutes until the top of the hour. Here's what you need to know to start your day.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

VELSHI (voice-over): Dozens dead in Baghdad bombings overnight. Police say four car bombs and nine roadside bombs went off within two hours of each other killing at least 63 people.

A defense department investigation into an airstrike that killed 24 Pakistanis has found U.S. forces acted in self-defense. So, the agency also adds there was poor coordination between the two militaries. Pakistan has repeatedly insisted the airstrike near the Afghan border was deliberate.

Nine days now until a tax hike, and House Republicans walking out of an effort by Democrats to force a vote on extending the payroll tax. House Speaker John Boehner saying members still want it extended for the whole year, not just for two months.

Syrian rebels are asking the U.N. to help stop, quote, "acts of genocide" in their country. In the last two days, rebels say more than 250 people have been killed in a government crackdown on protesters. The Arab league is expected to send monitors into Syria today.

Wal-Mart pulling a batch of baby formula off its shelves after a 10-day-old Missouri boy died from a rare bacterial infection. The manufacturer of Enfamil says the formula tested negative for bacteria before it was shipped. Health investigators are also checking other factors like the water that was used to prepare the formula.

Arizona sheriff, Joe Arpaio, has been slapped with a lawsuit from a Mexican woman who says his officers abused her while she was pregnant. She clams officers kept her shackled while she was in labor. Arpaio also faces federal allegations of discriminating against Latinos.

A man thought to be a victim of serial killer, John Wayne Gacy, is alive. Ted Zolb (ph) vanished back in 1976. His car found abandoned near Gacy's home. He says he disappeared on his own, running away from the stress of a divorce.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VELSHI (on-camera): That is the news you need to know. AMERICAN MORNING is back right after this.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ROMANS: It's a live look at Atlanta, Georgia. Good morning, everybody there, and to you as well. Welcome back to AMERICAN MORNING this morning.

Republican presidential candidate, Newt Gingrich, has been criticized for his lucrative ties to Freddie Mac, but the former House speaker says, you know, he didn't need to lobby for the mortgage giant. He wasn't there to make a bunch of money off of them because he was paid so generously just to give speeches. He made money on the speaking circuit.

So, we wanted to look a little bit closer at the speaking circuit and the money there for former politicians, because they are celebrities, pulling in anywhere from a few thousands dollars to be a panelist to tens of thousands of dollars to deliver a keynote address. Newt Gingrich this week said he made at least $35,000 for each speech he gave after leaving Congress.

But when it comes to public speaking fees, former presidents make the most, and Bill Clinton is king. I wanted to show you this. Wow! $75 million in speaking fees since leaving office in 2001. In 2008, he made more than half a million for just one speech. And in 2010, he was making an average of about 205 grand per speech. How do we know this?

Because his wife is required to disclose it as the secretary of state. Ronald Reagan sort of started all of this. He famously made $2 million from a Japanese company back in 1989 for two speeches. And since then, American presidents have left their, I don't know, $400,000 a year jobs to make many times that speaking to audiences.

The Center for Public Integrity says that President George W. Bush has earned $15 million for about 140 speeches here and abroad since he left the White House. That comes out to about $107,000 a speech. Now, who pays? It's big corporations, it's universities, trade associations, and often it comes from the very industries the speaker once oversaw.

Goldman Sachs paid former treasury secretary, Larry Summers, $135,000 a speech. That's according to "Wall Street Journal" analysis of financial disclosure forms. Now, it's Washington insiders, it's politicians, and sort of politicians. In 2005, Donald Trump earned $3 million for three real estate seminars. And MTV reality show star, just to spice it up, Snooki, she made $32,000 for two speeches at Rutgers earlier this year.

Ali, it's interesting to the speech agent once told us, you know, these politicians are vilified, and as soon as they get out of Congress, suddenly, people are lining up to pay them thousands of dollars to speak.

VELSHI: I was enjoying the whole report. I really like it, but Snooki was --

ROMANS: I lost you at Snooki. They pay Snooki 35 grand. You know, what the --

(CROSSTALK)

VELSHI: At the height of it, I don't know if she's still getting (ph). Snooki was getting paid just to show up places like in parties on a Saturday night.

ROMANS: I know.

VELSHI: And that's the real money. You don't even have to write a speech.

ROMANS: But I will say not all former Congress members get that kind of money. I mean, they have to be a good speaker. And Newt Gingrich is known on the speaking surrogate as delivering. He delivers in those speeches.

VELSHI: All right. Christine, thank you.

ROMANS: You're welcome.

VELSHI: All right. Coming up ahead next hour, the House deadlocked over extending the payroll tax cut. Senators John McCain and Dick Durbin are here. Big names from two parties both saying the House is got to get this done.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Content and programming copyright 2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP.    ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.    This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.      

Document CNLM000020111222e7cm00001



News
Local in brief

Arielle Kass, Christopher Quinn      
Staff, Associated Press      
470 words
20 December 2011
The Atlanta Journal - Constitution
ATJC
Main
A12
English
Copyright (c) 2011 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, All Rights Reserved      

Labor Department will help fill Wal-Mart jobs

The Georgia Department of Labor will help Wal-Mart fill about 250 openings at a new Covington store.

A hiring center at Prospect United Methodist Church at 6752 Ga. 212 in Covington had its opening moved to Wednesday because of equipment issues, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman said. It was originally planned for Monday.

Beginning Wednesday, the hiring center will be open from 8 a.m. until 4 p.m. weekdays through Jan. 31.

The Department of Labor said the company will be hiring full-time and part-time positions, including managers, supervisors, sales associates, cashiers, customer service representatives and grocery and stock clerks.

Applications can be found at walmart.com.

When it opens, the new store will be at 4200 Salem Road in Covington. ARIELLE KASS

Local real estate firm opens Hong Kong office

Portman Holdings, an Atlanta-based real estate investment, development and management company, opened a Hong Kong office. The company has a Shanghai office and has worked in China for more than 30 years. Its corporate headquarters have been in Atlanta since 1953. The company focuses on hospitality, office and mixed-use properties. CHRISTOPHER QUINN

Pinnacle plans 154 layoffs at Memphis airport

Pinnacle Airlines Corp. is laying off 154 employees Jan. 4 at Memphis International Airport in Tennessee.

The company announced the layoffs Monday, attributing the move to Atlanta-based Delta Air Lines cutbacks. Pinnacle employees handle baggage for Delta and other carriers at the airport.

Delta and regional partners will scale back to fewer than 150 daily flights next month, compared with 238 flights three years ago, according to The Commercial Appeal.

Pinnacle now has 560 employees at the airport in the unit affected. ASSOCIATED PRESS

2 Muslim passengers sue Delta, Atlantic Southeast

Two Muslim men who were kicked off an airplane in May are suing Atlanta-based Delta Air Lines Inc. and a regional carrier that operated the flight from Memphis to Charlotte, N.C.

The suit was filed Monday in federal court against Delta and Atlantic Southeast Airlines Inc.

It said Masudur Rahman and Mohamed Zaghloul went through several security checks. It claims the pilot wanted them off the plane because he thought their presence would make other passengers uncomfortable. The men are described in the suit as having beards and "traditional Arabic clothing." It seeks compensation for losses and injuries as well as punitive damages.

Atlantic Southeast and Delta issued a statement condemning discrimination, saying "our employees act at all times in the best interest of passenger safety and security," but declining to comment further.

The two were traveling to a conference on anti-Muslim discrimination. ASSOCIATED PRESS 

For Reprints in the Original Format:      http://www.ajc.com/info/content/services/info/reprint2.html

Document ATJC000020111220e7ck00015

Clinic loses suit naming Wal-Mart.(Health Care)

Friedman, Mark      
733 words
19 December 2011
Arkansas Business
ARK
29
ISSN: 1053-6582; Volume 28; Issue 51
English
Copyright 2011 Gale Group. All rights reserved.      

A U.S. District Court judge recently ruled that Wal-Mart Stores Inc. didn't do anything wrong when it terminated its lease agreement with a Little Rock walk-in health clinic.

On Nov. 30, U.S. District Court Judge Robert Dawson tossed the lawsuit filed against Wal-Mart by Maumelle Medical Clinics Inc.

In 2010, Maumelle Medical Clinics accused the Bentonville retailer of racial discrimination for canceling its lease agreement for the 30 Minute Clinic in Wal-Mart's Supercenter on Baseline Road.

"The Court finds [Maumelle Medical Clinics] failed to meet its burden of showing discriminatory intent" by Wal-Mart, Dawson said in his 17-page ruling.

Jerry Poole, who also has a health clinic in Maumelle, hired Dr. Charles Schock and opened the Wal-Mart clinic in November 2009. The business quickly grew, treating 30 to 40 patients a day, according to the clinic's lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court.

But nearly all the patients were black or Hispanic and were in poor health, the lawsuit said. "Wal-Mart employees and managers began to complain to [Maumelle Medical Clinics] concerning the 'type of people' the clinic was attracting," the lawsuit said. Wal-Mart then terminated its lease agreement with Poole.

Wal-Mart told a very different story. The company said its pharmacy started receiving a large number of prescriptions from the 30 Minute Clinic for Phenergan with codeine, which can be addictive and used to make the street drug called Sizzurp or Purple Drank. (Schock, according to his own deposition, used preprinted prescription slips for Phenergan with codeine to save time.)

Wal-Mart officials said, "The number of prescriptions for [a] controlled substance by the Clinic was unlike any pattern [Wal-Mart] had ever seen" Wal-Mart officials also said it observed suspicious activity that appeared to be drug deals between people who visited the clinic and then the pharmacy.

Poole and his attorneys didn't see it that way.

"I have rarely seen the equal of such overt racial discrimination against African Americans and Hispanics since before the Civil Rights Act of 1964," Mark Lane of Charlotteville, Va., an attorney for Maumelle Medical, said in a Nov. 21 news release. The news release was issued before Dawson's ruling. The case was scheduled to go to trial on Dec. 12 in Hot Springs, but Dawson issued a summary judgment in Wal-Mart's favor.

Poole said he planned to appeal, and his lawyer, David Bowden of Little Rock, is attempting to get the case filed in a state circuit court.

"We stated [the lawsuit with] both state and federal claims, and the judge dismissed the state claims with prejudice as well."

When a case is dismissed with prejudice, it can't be refiled.

He asked Dawson to revise his order so the state claims are dismissed "without prejudice" so it can be refiled.

That motion is pending.

Arkansas Mutual Cuts Rates by 12.5 Percent

Arkansas Mutual Insurance Co. of Little Rock recently announced that premiums for its medical liability insurance would drop 12.5 percent.

The rates, which have been flat for the past couple of years, dropped because Arkansas Mutual is "very selective" about what doctors it underwrites and has controlled its losses, said its CEO, Corey Little.

Its premium revenue has been rising, too. In 2009, it wrote $467,913, and in 2010 it was $980,339, according to the Arkansas Insurance Department.

Arkansas Mutual had $22,500 in direct losses incurred--that is, claims submitted--in 2010 and $2,251 in 2009, the Insurance Department showed.

Little said the insurance carrier rejected about 150 doctors who wanted into the plan. It currently writes insurance for about 300 doctors.

"As the CEO of the company, I don't have anybody telling me to bring in more doctors," Little said. "Our policyholders are more excited that we've brought in the right doctors."

Medical malpractice premiums vary depending on the specialty, but the average is about $10,000 annually, he said.

Founded in 2008, the nonprofit organization is owned and governed by its physician policyholders.

"Arkansas Mutual was founded in order to stop the needless outflow of millions of premium dollars that were leaving Arkansas and going to other states in the form of profits or dividends," Little said in a Dec. 8 news release.

Document ARK0000020120106e7cj0000z



FINRA Proposal On Predispute Agreements To Arbitrate Whistleblower Claims

Ken O'Brien    
1,229 words
19 December 2011
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2011 Mondaq Ltd    

The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), the largest independent non-profit regulator for all securities firms engaged in business in the U.S., has proposed a long-awaited rule change intended to align its arbitration rules with the Dodd-Frank Consumer Reform and Wall Street Protection Act of 2010, Pub. L. No. 111-203, § 919 (2010) ("Dodd-Frank"), which invalidated predispute agreements to arbitrate certain whistleblower claims. The rule change would amend FINRA Rule 13200 of the Code of Arbitration Procedure for Industry Disputes, which presently mandates predispute arbitration of employment disputes (except statutory discrimination claims) between registered securities representatives and their employers.

FINRA's reach in America's financial life cannot be overstated. It oversees all securities, commodities and financial services firms doing business with the public, including more than 4400 securities firms, 160,000 branch offices and 635,000 registered securities representatives.1 Those in the financial services industry know that these hundreds of thousands of highly compensated individuals must complete Form U-4, pursuant to which they agree in advance to submit nearly all disputes with their employers, other persons, and related entities to final and binding arbitration under the provisions of FINRA's Arbitration Procedure.2 These predispute agreements to arbitrate typically preclude any kind of public court or trial proceedings in connection with such claims. The Form U-4 advises the employee, among other things, that he or she is "giving up the right to sue a member, customer, or another associated person in court, including the right to a trial by jury."3

Of course, many employers, and not only those in the financial services industry, routinely enter into similar predispute agreements to arbitrate employment-related claims, and courts have found such agreements to be valid.4 The U.S. Supreme Court also recently made clear that, in general, predispute agreements to arbitrate are fully enforceable. See AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion, 131 S. Ct. 1740 (2011), and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes, 131 S. Ct. 2541 (2011).

Amidst these favorable developments validating the use of predispute arbitration agreements, however, has been one very notable exception. Enacted in July 2010, Dodd-Frank added numerous provisions to federal law that were intended to encourage employees of publicly traded companies, their reporting subsidiaries, and rating organizations to make so-called whistleblowing complaints.5 Among other things, Dodd-Frank amended existing whistleblower provisions under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to provide that "no predispute arbitration agreement shall be valid or enforceable if the agreement requires arbitration of a dispute arising under this section." Dodd-Frank also adopted a new and separate anti-retaliation provision for whistleblowers who make securities-related complaints to the SEC and elsewhere, and the SEC has since taken the position that predispute agreements to arbitrate those claims are prohibited by Section 29(a) of the Securities Exchange Act.6

Rule 13201 of the FINRA Arbitration Procedures currently provides that claims of employment discrimination, including sexual harassment, are not required to be arbitrated unless "the parties have agreed to arbitrate it, either before or after the dispute arose."7 At some securities firms, such claims are still routinely handled pursuant to a predispute arbitration agreement. This is not universally true, however, because some firms find that they are better off in court where, for example, they may present dispositive motions.

If FINRA were to adopt the proposed changes to Rule 13201, the foregoing provisions relating to the resolution of disputes involving claims of employment discrimination would remain unchanged, allowing parties to agree in advance of any such dispute that it be resolved through final and binding arbitration. However, the amendment would establish a new subsection (b) to Rule 13201, providing that "a dispute arising under a whistleblower statute that prohibits the use of predispute arbitration agreements is not required to be arbitrated under the Code. Such a dispute may be arbitrated only if the parties have agreed to arbitrate it after the dispute arose." (emphasis added) Such language would also be added to the standard Form U-4 if the proposed changes are adopted.

The proposed rule change is not limited to Dodd-Frank or Sarbanes-Oxley claims and apparently would apply to a claim under any "whistleblower" statue that includes a prohibition against predispute agreements to arbitrate. As a result, the proposed rule change may extend far beyond claims under Dodd-Frank, which itself defines "whistleblower" broadly to include any person who provides information related to a possible violation "of the federal securities laws (including any rules or regulations thereunder) that has occurred, is ongoing, or is about to occur."8

It is also important to note that Dodd-Frank and the amended FINRA rule may mark the beginning of a trend toward broader legislative efforts to invalidate predispute arbitration agreements. One such effort, the proposed Arbitration Fairness Act of 2011, S. 987 and H.R. 1873, would invalidate predispute agreements to arbitrate any kind of employment, consumer or civil rights matter. To date, this legislation has drawn 14 senators and 75 representatives as cosponsors.9

Individuals and organizations who wish to comment on the proposed Rule change need to act quickly. Comments must be submitted to the SEC by Tuesday, January 3, 2011. Such comments may be submitted via e-mail or letter to the SEC or electronically at this web page. All comments submitted to the SEC will be made public.

Employers who have concerns regarding the use or enforceability of predispute arbitration agreements should contact experienced employment counsel for advice.

Footnotes

1 See www.finra.org/AboutFINRA/.

2 FINRA Code of Arbitration Procedures, Rules 13000, 13200 et seq., available at http://finra.complinet.com/en/display/display_main.html?rbid=2403&element_id=4193.

3 FINRA Rule 2263, "Arbitration Disclosure to Associated Persons," Form U-4.

4 See, e.g., Giuliano v. Inland Empire Pers., Inc., 149 Cal. App. 4th 1276, 1289 (2007) (California employment agreement).

5 For a detailed discussion of the "Bounty Hunter" provisions of Dodd-Frank, see the Littler Report, Dodd-Frank and the SEC Final Rule: From Protected Employee to Bounty Hunter (July 1, 2011), available at www.littler.com/files/press/pdf/LittlerReportDoddFrankAndTheSECFinalRule.pdf.

6 Implementation of the Whistleblower Provisions of Section 21F of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, p. 19-20, available at www.sec.gov/rules/final/2011/34-64545.pdf.

7 In such event, the claim is administered under Rule 13802, which provides detailed provisions as to the composition of the arbitration panel, arbitration fees, hearings and awards.

8 Dodd-Frank Final Rules, § 240.21F-2(a), available at www.sec.gov/rules/final/2011/34-64545.pdf.

9 S. 987, available at www.govtrack.us/congress/bill.xpd?bill=s112-987, and H.R. 1873, available at www.govtrack.us/congress/bill.xpd?bill=h112-1873.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Mr Ken O'Brien

Littler Mendelson

650 California Street

20th Floor

San Francisco

California

CA 94108-2693

UNITED STATES

Tel: 4154331940

Fax: 4159863925

E-mail: SWoodhouse@littler.com

URL: www.littler.com

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2011 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Document BBPUB00020111220e7cj00007



Jammu sidelined again, Ramesh announces one lakh jobs to Kashmiri youth

549 words
18 December 2011
Early Times
HTEART
English
Copyright 2011. Early Times.      

srinagar, Dec. 18 -- The decades discrimination doled out to Jammu yet has not seized as the Union Minister Jairam Romesh announced one lakh jobs but only for Kashmiri youths.

He announced this while speaking on the launch of project Himayat under which the youth below 10th standard are able to get training in various skill trades.

Under the project Himayat the Cafe Cofee Day, V-Mart, Bajaj Alliance, Airtel Call Centers, Best Price (Bharti Walmart) and other companies have played a key role for the project implementation to create more job avenues for skilled and unskilled youths.

Speaking on the launch of project, Union Minister Jairam Ramesh complemented the state government and its machinery for their full cooperation in making the project success but he at nowhere mentioned the job for youths of whole state. While announcing the job opportunities, he announced one lakh jobs to be created for Kashmiri youths.

But as the routine affair the state and central leadership diplomatically brushed aside the Jammu and Ladakh and tried to appeased the Kashmiri youths and spoke of the jobs absorption for Kashmiri youths.

1059 youths were provided on spot employment orders during the function, which was also attended by Union Minister for Rural development Jai Ram Ramesh besides others, for working in private companies in the state and outside.

JKNPP youth leader said on a telephone, "JKNPP demands re-organisation of the Jammu and Kashmir as Jammu, Ladakh and Kashmir regions are totally different in terms of geography, culture, living and traditions."

Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh were separate Kingdoms as per the history, he said adding there is need for providing separate political, economic and education infrastructure in all the three regions, he said further adding that Jammu and Ladakh region has been discriminated for past several decades on all fronts and Kashmir has enjoyed as decision making units.

Another Jammuites Ajit Singh said that since from the six decades the successive central governments have been found inclined towards Kashmir while neglecting the aspirations and the interests of Jammu and Ladakh. "And this was once again indicated by the today's announcement by union minister infront of the state leadership, he added.

While launching the ''Himayat Project' at the Kashmir University, here in Srinagar, Omar said, majority of the Kashmiri youth wants to support their family and moves outside the state for employment opportunities. "Under the Himayat project, we will send youths outside the state to work there in different companies.

Omar however expressed his 'happiness that at least this report of Rangarajan was effectively translated into reality as compared to other previous such reports and recommendations'.

Omar said the state was entering a new phase of economic development and the state government cannot be the sole employer. "At Present State is facing the burden of Rs. 14.50 thousand crores on account of salaries and pensions of the employees, while we are still striving for creating more job opportunities at government level but at the same time the role of private sector is pivotal," he added.Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com      

Document HTEART0020111217e7ci00011



Don't Suspect, Harass Kashmiris: Omar Tells CMs

938 words
17 December 2011
Kashmir Observer
HTKASO
English
Copyright 2011. Kashmir Observer.      

Srinagar, Dec. 17 -- Jammu and Kashmir chief minister, Omar Abdullah, Saturday handed over job orders to over 1,000 youth with below 10th standard qualification to mark the launch of "Himayat" project envisaging absorption of a lakh youth in various private companies over the next five years.

"The quick and practical implementation of first phase of Rangrajan report under which one lakh youth are required to be trained within five years, is a very positive step to reduce the scale of unemployment in the state," he said while speaking at a function at the Kashmir University's convocation center, adding that at least the recommendation of the prime minister's advisor was translated effectively into a reality unlike several other reports which had been consigned to the dustbin.

Omar said the state was entering a new phase of economic development and that the state government could not be the sole employer. "At present, the state is facing the burden of Rs.14.50 thousand crore on account of salaries and pensions of employees, while we are still striving for creating more job opportunities at government level but at the same time the role of private sector is pivotal," he said.

Under the "Himayat" project, several reputed companies like Cafe Cofee Day, V-Mart, Bajaj Alliance, Airtel Call Centers, Best Price (Bharti Walmart) and others have played the key role for its implementation.

"I can tell you with assurance that this state has many friends in the centre and, among them, we find C Rangarajan and Ramesh Ji always helping us as they want this state to grow and prosper," said Omar, while flashing a smile towards the podium.

The chief minister renewed his plea to his counterparts in other states not to look at the Kashmiri youth with suspicion. He said there were apprehensions among parents not to send their wards outside the state because of the harassment they faced there.

"I appealed chief ministers of all the states of India not to look at Kashmiris with the suspicion of militants. Every Sikh is not a terrorist, similarly every Kashmiri is not a terrorist," Omar said.

"Majority of the Kashmiri youth want to support their families and move outside the state for employment opportunities. Under the Himayat project, we will send youths outside the state to work there in different companies. However, if they face any harassment by looking over them with suspicion there, particularly on 15th August and 26th January, it could create problems and hindrances," he cautioned.

"The unfortunate thing about Jammu and Kashmir and its people is that the worst time of Kashmir and India's good days commenced at the same time. "When there was peace in the valley, the economy of the country was very low and at a time when the country witnessed economic boom, we saw unrest and were ignored in all sectors," he said.

"I have time and again insisted on the chief minister of every state that please for God's sake, stop suspecting every Kashmiri. Every Kashmiri is not a militant and every Kashmiri doesn't want destruction," he said.

On the controversial issue of reopening of cinemas in the valley his father and National Conference president has advocated, the chief minister said his government would welcome setting up of cinema halls.

However, he made it clear that nobody would be forced to do so. If anyone wants to set up a cinema hall, no financial help or subsidy would be offered by the government. "Cinema halls have always been a private sector enterprise," he said, adding the state government was neither in the business of setting up cinema halls nor will give subsidy to any such venture.

Speaking on the occasion, the union minister for Rural Development, Jai Ram Ramesh,

announced that apart from "Himayat" under which youth below 10th standard would be trained, another project 'Udaan" was in the pipeline for graduate youth and those with higher qualification. Under it, 40,000 youth will be trained in five years.

Endorsing the chief minister's plea for sparing Kashmiri youth of any suspicion and harassment outside their state, Ramesh said another mega programme would be launched on 30th June 2012 under which 2,000 youths would get jobs after their skill development. He hoped the state government would support it by providing hostel and lodging facilities.

Ramesh suggested to the prime minister's economic advisor, C Rangarajan, present on the occasion, that schemes may be formulated to provide incentives to the companies coming forward to provide jobs under Himayat project. He expressed satisfaction over the performance of IL&FS and DB tech who trained the youth in different skills.

He said a website under Himayat would be launched soon to enable interaction between the newly placed candidates and availability of other valuable information.

Speaking on the occasion, Rangarajan said the basic idea behind the launch of Himayat through Rural development Department was to ensure skill development, self confidence and sense of self reliance among urban and rural youth. The scheme will empower them through quality training and subsequent placements in reputed companies. The scheme has given a practical shape to public and private partnership concept, he said.

Present on the occasion were the J-K minister for Rural Development, Ali Muhammad Sagar, his junior, Aijaz Ahmad Khan, and the vice-chancellor, Kashmir University, Prof Tal'at Ahmad.Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Observer.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com      

Document HTKASO0020111218e7ch0005m

Wal-Mart to Pay $275,000 to Former Employee Fired after Cancer Surgery

475 words
16 December 2011
Government Publications and Press Releases
GOVPUB
English
Copyright © 2011 Federal Information & News Dispatch, Inc.      

Press Releases and Statements

12-16-11

Wal-Mart to Pay $275,000 to Former Employee Fired after Cancer Surgery

Company Violated ADAAA Disability Law, EEOC Charged

GREENEVILLE, Tenn. -Wal-Mart Stores Inc. will pay $275,000 to settle a disability lawsuit filed by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the agency announced today.

In its lawsuit, the EEOC charged that the company denied a 12-year employee of its East Tennessee distribution center #6039 in Midway, Tenn., a reasonable accommodation after he had cancer surgery, which left him with weakness in his right shoulder. The EEOC said Wal-Mart also fired him in retaliation for complaining about its refusal to accommodate him. The employee had successfully worked as a forklift driver after the surgery. He requested that the company not require him to cover a 20-minute break in the shipping department because it would require manual lifting. Wal-Mart denied his request for an accommodation and discharged him, claiming he could not perform the essential functions of his job.

Denial of a reasonable accommodation and retaliation against disabled individuals violates Title I of the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) as amended by the Americans With Disabilities Amendments Act of 2008 (ADAAA). The EEOC filed suit on Oct.10, 2010, No. 2: 10-cv-00222, in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, Greenville Division after first attempting to reach a pre-litigation settlement through its conciliation process. This case was among the agency's first lawsuits filed under the ADAAA.

"There is a solid body of federal law that clearly obligates employers to provide an employee with a reasonable accommodation unless it poses an undue hardship," said Faye A. Williams, regional attorney for the EEOC's Memphis District Office. "The EEOC remains committed to vigorously enforcing the ADA and the ADAAA."

In addition to the monetary relief, the 18-month consent decree settling the suit enjoins Wal-Mart's distribution center #6039 from further failing to provide reasonable accommodation, absent undue hardship, or following proper procedures for handling such requests per the ADA and ADAAA. In addition, the decree requires that Wal-Mart provide anti-disability discrimination training to its management staff; maintain records of any accommodation requests and furnish them to the EEOC; and post a notice to employees about the lawsuit that includes the EEOC's contact information. Wal-Mart has revised and amended its accommodation policy, which it distributed to all employees, to address accommodation issues.

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., is a retail store chain with more than 8,576 retail units under 55 different banners in 15 countries.

The EEOC enforces federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination. Further information about the EEOC is available on its web site at www.eeoc.gov.

Document GOVPUB0020111221e7cg00001

EEOC Sues Wal-Mart for Disability    Discrimination  and Retaliation

565 words
15 December 2011
Government Publications and Press Releases
GOVPUB
English
Copyright © 2011 Federal Information & News Dispatch, Inc.      

Press Releases and Statements

12-15-11

EEOC Sues Wal-Mart for Disability Discrimination and Retaliation

Placerville Store Denied Close Parking for Employee with Heart Condition, Federal Agency Charged

SACRAMENTO, Calif. - Mega-retailer Wal-Mart violated federal law when it failed to accommodate an employee with a disability, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) charged in a lawsuit filed today. The EEOC also charged that Wal-Mart later fired the worker because of his disability and in retaliation for asserting his civil rights.

According to the EEOC's investigation, David Gallo worked at the Walmart in Placerville, Calif., starting in June 2003. During his six years at the store, Gallo's successful performance was reflected in promotions from overnight stocker to manager of the store's tire lube express bay. Gallo has atrial fibrillation, a heart condition that causes shortness of breath and difficulty walking. In March 2008, the new store manager barred Gallo from parking in the handicap parking spaces and any spaces close to the front of the store, despite the company's knowledge that Gallo had a disability. Gallo filed a charge with the EEOC for Wal-Mart's failure to accommodate his disability in September 2008. Eight months later, he was fired allegedly for an error made by a subordinate, even though the subordinate and the inspector who had reviewed his work were not discharged.

"Letting me park closer to my job was a little thing for Wal-Mart, but would have made a big difference to me," stated Gallo. "The store manager made me move to the back of the parking lot, even after I showed him my handicap placard. I asked for a simple accommodation, and I lost my job over it."

The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) prohibits treating workers unfavorably because they have a disability and requires employers to make reasonable accommodations to applicants and employees with disabilities. The ADA also prohibits retaliatory actions against employees for requesting an accommodation or filing a charge with the EEOC. After first attempting to reach a pre-litigation settlement through conciliation, the EEOC filed the lawsuit (EEOC v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., No. 2: 11-AT-01806) in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of California, and seeks monetary damages on behalf of Gallo, training on the ADA and other steps to prevent future discrimination.

EEOC San Francisco Regional Attorney William R. Tamayo said, "In December 2001, the EEOC reached a $6.5 million settlement with Wal-Mart. That consent decree was in effect for four years, resolved 13 different cases of disability discrimination against the company throughout the U.S., and required Wal-Mart to hire an ADA coordinator. Nevertheless, it appears that some store managers still do not understand their obligation to accommodate people with disabilities."

EEOC San Francisco District Director Michael Baldonado commented, "Wal-Mart could have easily accommodated Mr. Gallo, but despite his repeated requests, nothing happened until he filed his EEOC charge. Wal-Mart compounded its mistake by firing him in retaliation. The EEOC will defend employees' rights to ask for an accommodation for their disabilities and to report discrimination when employers fail to respond properly to their requests. "

The EEOC enforces federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination. Further information about the EEOC is available on its web site at www.eeoc.gov.

Document GOVPUB0020111216e7cf0005m



EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION SUES WAL-MART FOR DISABILITY    DISCRIMINATION  AND RETALIATION

572 words
15 December 2011
US Fed News
INDFED
English
Copyright 2011. HT Media Limited. All rights reserved.      

SACRAMENTO, Calif., Dec. 15 -- The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission issued the following press release:

Mega-retailer Wal-Mart violated federal law when it failed to accommodate an employee with a disability, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) charged in a lawsuit filed today. The EEOC also charged that Wal-Mart later fired the worker because of his disability and in retaliation for asserting his civil rights.

According to the EEOC's investigation, David Gallo worked at the Walmart in Placerville, Calif., starting in June 2003. During his six years at the store, Gallo's successful performance was reflected in promotions from overnight stocker to manager of the store's tire lube express bay. Gallo has atrial fibrillation, a heart condition that causes shortness of breath and difficulty walking. In March 2008, the new store manager barred Gallo from parking in the handicap parking spaces and any spaces close to the front of the store, despite the company's knowledge that Gallo had a disability. Gallo filed a charge with the EEOC for Wal-Mart's failure to accommodate his disability in September 2008. Eight months later, he was fired allegedly for an error made by a subordinate, even though the subordinate and the inspector who had reviewed his work were not discharged.

"Letting me park closer to my job was a little thing for Wal-Mart, but would have made a big difference to me," stated Gallo. "The store manager made me move to the back of the parking lot, even after I showed him my handicap placard. I asked for a simple accommodation, and I lost my job over it."

The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) prohibits treating workers unfavorably because they have a disability and requires employers to make reasonable accommodations to applicants and employees with disabilities. The ADA also prohibits retaliatory actions against employees for requesting an accommodation or filing a charge with the EEOC. After first attempting to reach a pre-litigation settlement through conciliation, the EEOC filed the lawsuit (EEOC v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., No. 2:11-AT-01806) in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of California, and seeks monetary damages on behalf of Gallo, training on the ADA and other steps to prevent future discrimination.

EEOC San Francisco Regional Attorney William R. Tamayo said, "In December 2001, the EEOC reached a $6.5 million settlement with Wal-Mart. That consent decree was in effect for four years, resolved 13 different cases of disability discrimination against the company throughout the U.S., and required Wal-Mart to hire an ADA coordinator. Nevertheless, it appears that some store managers still do not understand their obligation to accommodate people with disabilities."

EEOC San Francisco District Director Michael Baldonado commented, "Wal-Mart could have easily accommodated Mr. Gallo, but despite his repeated requests, nothing happened until he filed his EEOC charge. Wal-Mart compounded its mistake by firing him in retaliation. The EEOC will defend employees' rights to ask for an accommodation for their disabilities and to report discrimination when employers fail to respond properly to their requests. "

The EEOC enforces federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination. Further information about the EEOC is available on its web site at www.eeoc.gov.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com      

Document INDFED0020111217e7cf003gr



WSJ BLOG/India Real Time: I Dreamed of a Lokpal and It Was Scary

745 words
13 December 2011
12:30 AM
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.      

(This story has been posted on The Wall Street Journal Online's India Real Time Report blog at http://blogs.wsj.com/indiarealtime.)

By Paul Beckett

"Even after [the Lokpal] is created, it may lead to a huge parallel bureaucracy which would set in train its own set of consequences, including arbitrariness, harassment and unfair and illegal action." -- Parliamentary standing committee report on Lokpal Bill 2011, Dec. 9, 2011.

We wondered -- tongue firmly in cheek -- what the future might look like in a Lokpal society.

The Scene: Jan Lokpal Bhavan (formerly Rashtrapathi Bhavan)

New Delhi, Jan. 2, 2014

Enter: Arvind Kejriwal, Supreme Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Lokpal Staff. Turns to sleepy old peon.

Kejriwal: Hey Manmohan! Wake up and bring me my tea.

Manmohan [dazed, blinking]: I am in favor of a strong Lokpal!

Kejriwal: Yes, you've been saying that ever since we probed you. Stop it.

Manmohan: I am in favor of a strong cup of tea!

Kejriwal: Better. Now, to business. I want to make sure we still hold the power of life and death over more people than are employed by the U.S. Federal Government, Wal-Mart and the People's Liberation Army combined. [pushes buttons on video monitor] Commander of the Lower Orders of the Bureaucracy, can you confirm?

Kiran Bedi [appears on screen]: Good morning, sir. As of midnight, government of Amrika had 2,002,451, Wal-Mart had 2,100,367, and the Chinese Army 3,008,422--[turns from monitor and shouts] Get off my lawn! [back to monitor] Sorry, sir, bloody neighborhood kids, we need to bring them under our jurisdiction as well ...

Kejriwal: Focus Commander, focus. We'll send over the Great Gandhian to educate them in the ways of non-violent beating. [turns to Manmohan] So, Mr. Internationally Respected Economist [giggles], what are the totals then?

Manmohan: 7,111,240 for them versus 7,111,196 Indian government workers who now report to you.

Kejriwal: Damn! They're 44 ahead. Wal-Mart must be hiring in Chihuahua. Or the Chinese have formed a new battalion to harass our troops in Arunachal Pradesh. We need more people under our purview. Suggestions?

Kiran Bedi: Supreme Court! Supreme Court! Down with the Supreme Court!

Kejriwal: Please think before you yell, Commander. There are only 28 justices. And they already report to me.

Kiran Bedi: Ah, yes, since the Great Agitation of 2013.

Kejriwal: Lets tell Modi-ji to nationalize one of his GM plants in Gujarat. That should net us 24,994. Even better, we could remove our spies from Mayawati's new mansion in Chanakyapuri if she agrees to give us all of her "Behenji" statue carvers. That should net us 387,228.

Manmohan [interrupting]: Sir, you have a phone call from 10 Janpath.

Kejriwal: Dammit. Doesn't she know how busy I am? What does she want?

Manmohan: Permission to speak in Parliament, sir.

Kejriwal: Denied!

Manmohan: If I might be so bold, sir. She's just asking if she can tell the nation when you want to hold the next elections.

Kejriwal: I will tell her later when the people want them. First I need to consult my calendar. [clicks on computer] Let's see. They can't be in March because we are dissolving the Rajya Sabha forever on the 5 and replacing it with a Jan Rajya Sabha, with 1,762 members appointed by me. The 10 I had penciled in as Hang Parliament Day. That still makes me laugh. Gettit Manmo? You had a hung Parliament, I have a Hang Parliament Day--

Manmohan: [Sighs] Yes, very clever sir. I do so admire your sense of humor. Shall I tell her you cannot speak right now?

Kejriwal: OK, OK, give me the phone. I swear that sometimes it seems like nothing has changed at all. What was the point of throwing out the old government and installing all our friends if I am only going to be harassed by some blasted female politician? [picks up handset] Yes good morning, Sushma-ji, what's on your mind?

Paul Beckett is The Wall Street Journal's bureau chief in New Delhi. Follow him on Twitter @paulwsj. You can follow India Real Time on Twitter @indiarealtime.


 
 -For continuously updated news from The Wall Street Journal, see WSJ.com at http://wsj.com. 
 

[ 13-12-11 0630GMT ]

Document DJI0000020111213e7cd000a1



Best (and worst) of 2011; EMPLOYMENT

Judy Greenwald      
372 words
12 December 2011
Business Insurance
BZIN
18
Volume 45; Number 48
English
(c) 2011 Crain Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.      

The U.S. Supreme Court’s June decision in Betty Dukes et al. vs. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. was the best development of the year in employment law for employers, one expert says.

In that decision, the court ruled against a proposed class of some 1.5 million members, with the majority holding that “respondents have not identified a common mode of exercising discretion that pervades the entire company.”

Gerald L. Maatman Jr., a partner with Seyfarth Shaw L.L.P. in Chicago, said the decision is “probably being cited more than any other Supreme Court decision this year, and it is a defining standard insofar as almost every lawsuit involving class action issues has to account for” how Dukes impacts the case.

“It’s a win for employers,” said Mr. Maatman. “It’s armed employers with arguments they didn’t have before.”

Robin E. Shea, a partner with Constangy Brooks & Smith L.L.P. in Winston-Salem, N.C., said the best development was a June ruling by the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Denver in George Powell vs. Laborers Union #1271, in which the union was sued for passing over Mr. Powell’s name on a hiring hall list after it received “no-rehire” letters from employers. The court upheld the union’s move.

“I admire the courage of those employers who actually provided negative references on a bad employee so that future employers wouldn’t get burned,” she said.

Ms. Shea said the worst development was Verizon Communications Inc.’s “unfortunate decision” to agree to pay $20 million to resolve a nationwide class disability discrimination lawsuit involving the company’s “no fault” attendance plans with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in July. “I would have loved to see them force the EEOC to prove their case,” she said.

Mr. Maatman said the worst development was a July 6 case in federal district court in Columbus, Ohio, in EEOC vs. JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. in which, he said, the judge gave a “free pass, so to speak, to the EEOC’s litigation tactics.” Mr. Maatman said the EEOC’s lawsuit had exceeded the scope of its investigation.

Document BZIN000020111215e7cc00005



Companies
Walmart’s insider probe for corruption

439 words
12 December 2011
Moneylife
MONLIF
English
Copyright 2011. Moneywise Media Pvt Ltd.      

Retail giant, which wanted to enter the retail space in India, is investigating possible bribe to foreign officials

Global giant Walmart, which has been lobbying for entering organised retail in India, has begun an internal investigation about executives possibly having bribed foreign officials. In a disclosure filed before the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Walmart has said that it is conducting an ‘internal review’ on the allegations of violation(s) of Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.

“During fiscal 2012, the company began conducting a voluntary internal review of its policies, procedures and internal controls pertaining to its global anti-corruption compliance program. As a result of information obtained during that review and from other sources, the company has begun an internal investigation into whether certain matters, including permitting, licensing and inspections, were in compliance with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The company has engaged outside counsel and other advisors to assist in the review of these matters and has implemented, and is continuing to implement, appropriate remedial measures,” said Walmart in its Form 10-Q filed on 8 December 2011. However, the company did not give out any other details.

Despite the possibility of a serious violation, Walmart does not ‘believe’ that these matters will have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. “We cannot reasonably estimate the potential liability, if any, related to these matters,” said the company in the disclosure.

Walmart says it has engaged external counsellors and lawyers in this review and it is continuing to implement remedial measures.

In 2011, Walmart has two lawsuits pending—one against gender harassment and another on wage issues. The company has also been pulled up by authorities in USA and Brazil for environmental violations. California authorities initiated an investigation of whether third party contractors hired by the company were engaged in disposal of construction materials at a local landfill. In Brazil, two municipalities are investigating alleged local soil contamination due oil leakage from some stores. Walmart doesn’t believe either of these cases will adversely impact its finances.

Walmart’s revenues last year amounted to $440 billion. It has about 2,000,000 employees.

DISCLAIMER: This article is written purely in the public interest. While every attempt has been made to ensure that the information provided on this page is accurate, Moneywise Media Pvt Ltd and its group companies (together called as ‘Moneylife’) will not be held responsible for any claim, loss, damage or inconvenience caused as a result of any information within these pages or any information accessed through its site(s).

Document MONLIF0020111212e7cc0000f

Inside Insights; Inside Insights
Wal-Mart to conduct internal FCPA probe

By Alex Vorro    
238 words
9 December 2011
Inside Counsel
INCOUNS
English
Copyright 2011 Inside Counsel. A Summit Business Media publication. All rights reserved    

Perhaps the late Bon Scott may have been the ideal U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) investigator, as no single man probably ever knew more about dirty deeds and their related costs. Alas, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. will have to do without his help.

The world’s largest retailer is making headlines again this year, although this time not for  massive, sex-related  discrimination lawsuits. In a securities filing issued yesterday to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Wal-Mart highlighted that it has begun an internal investigation to determine whether some of its employees violated the FCPA.

The company said it voluntarily began an inquiry into its internal controls, policies and procedures related to its global anti-corruption compliance program. Despite the notification of its investigation, Wal-Mart failed to disclose any specifics regarding the reasoning behind the investigation.

"The company has begun an internal investigation into whether certain matters, including permitting, licensing and inspections, were in compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act," Wal-Mart wrote in the filing.

According to reports, the retailer has engaged outside counsel and advisers to assist with the review and to help install any appropriate corrective procedures.

Wal-Mart went on to note in the report that it does not expect any adverse material impact to come of the probe.

For more,  read Reuters.

Document INCOUNS020111210e7c900002



Sam's Club, Salvation Army and Off the Field Partner on Dream Drive Campaign

685 words
9 December 2011
Food & Beverage Close-Up
FOOBEV
English
(c) 2011. Close-Up Media, Inc. All rights reserved.      

Sam's Club is teaming with The Salvation Army and Off the Field professional football players' wives association for the fifth annual Dream Drive for the Salvation Army.

"Giving back to our local communities has been a long-standing part of our culture at Sam's Club," said Cindy O'Connor, Home and Apparel vice president for Sam's Club, in a release. "Our partnership with The Salvation Army and Off the Field allows us to help make the holidays a little brighter for families in need through the annual Dream Drive campaign."

"The partnership with Sam's Club for the past four years has allowed Dream Drive to become an annual tradition that is important for so many families," said Major George Hood, national community relations and development secretary for The Salvation Army. "The Salvation Army appreciates the continued support of Sam's Club and its customers, who have allowed us to provide critical services to those in need during the winter months and beyond with Dream Drive and The Red Kettle Campaign."

"Off the Field is excited to continue our partnership with Sam's Club and The Salvation Army and our involvement in Sam's Club Dream Drive," said Ericka Lassiter, president of Off the Field. "This rewarding and amazing experience has become an event our members anxiously await each year. Giving back to our communities is one of the main focuses of our organization. Dream Drive presents our members with the opportunity to make dreams come true for many families during the holiday season. We are excited that this year Off the Field will be participating in ten cities helping 200 families! We are truly honored to participate and humbled by this experience."

Twenty pre-selected families from the Salvation Army Adopt-A-Family program in ten different cities will receive $1,000 worth of gifts, including food, clothes, personal items and toys from Sam's Club. As part of the Dream Drive campaign, Off the Field representatives will be shopping at their local Sam's Clubs on Dec 8 to purchase items for these families.

Sam's Club will donate $200,000 through the Dream Drive program this holiday season to provide gifts and personal items for 200 Salvation Army families in the following cities:

-Baltimore

-Charlotte, N.C.

-Chicago

-Dallas

-Houston

-Indianapolis

-Kansas City, Mo.

-Philadelphia

-Phoenix

-Washington, D.C.

This year, Sam's Club and Walmart will host Salvation Army iconic red kettles and bell ringers outside locations nationwide during The Salvation Army's 120th Red Kettle Campaign through Dec 24.

Both Sam's Club and Walmart have been partners of The Salvation Army, providing a place for volunteers to collect donations that benefit local communities.

Sam's Club, a division of Wal-Mart Stores, is a membership warehouse club.

Sam's Club Giving supports community-based programs that empower young people, families and small businesses to make smart choices that lead to healthy and bright futures.

Through cash and in-kind donations, as well as the dedication of Associates, Sam's Club is committed to making an impact in areas that align with the company, and with the passions and interests of Members.

The Salvation Army, an evangelical part of the universal Christian church, has been supporting those in need in His name without discrimination.

The Salvation Army is a provider of social services that range from providing food for the hungry, relief for disaster victims, assistance for the disabled, outreach to the elderly and ill, clothing and shelter to the homeless and opportunities for underprivileged children.

Off the Field is comprised of the spouses of active and retired NFL Players. OTF is a 501 (c)(3) charitable organization that strives to be a resource to all its members and their communities.

The purpose of OTF is to have an alliance of women within a network who are fully committed to collectively affect change within themselves as well as their surrounding communities.

((Comments on this story may be sent to newsdesk@closeupmedia.com))

Document FOOBEV0020111209e7c90000k



Advocates: Companies can't support black consumers and those pushing restrictive voting laws

By SUZANNE GAMBOA      
Associated Press      
811 words
9 December 2011
07:23 AM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2011.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

WASHINGTON (AP) - An online advocacy group is urging corporations that market to African-Americans to stop giving money to a conservative organization working for stricter voting laws.

The group, ColorofChange, is targeting companies that support the American Legislative Exchange Council, or ALEC, a nonprofit that has helped states pass photo ID laws, which are criticized by minority and civil rights groups. Its members include legislators and corporations, who pay higher fees to join.

Executive director Rashad Robinson is not yet naming the companies, but said Wednesday his group has already asked them once to drop their financial support of ALEC. ColorofChange also is asking its more than 800,000 individual members to sign a letter asking ALEC's corporate members, which include The Coca-Cola Co. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. among others, to end their support for the group.

The intent, Robinson said, is to "place their brand next to these discriminatory voter ID laws and their impact."

"The corporations behind this can't come to us for our dollars 364 days of the week and disenfranchise us on the 365th," Robinson said.

Last year, 14 states approved 25 measures related to voting, from requiring photo IDs at the ballot box to restricting voting by ex-felons. Critics of the laws say they would have a negative effect on African-Americans, Latinos, students and the elderly.

The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People said this week it will gather information on an new early voting law in Florida in order to make the case to the Justice Department that the stricter laws were a coordinated assault on minorities' voting rights at a time when their numbers in the population and at voting booths have increased.

Some of the voting measures gained momentum through ALEC, which provides "models" of bills to corporate sponsors and legislative members who can then tweak them and propose them in their state legislatures.

Some lawmakers who sponsored the legislation are members of ALEC. The Fort Worth (Texas) Star-Telegram reported this month that half of the members of the Texas Legislature, which passed a law requiring specific types of photo IDs required to vote, have ties to ALEC and most used public money to pay dues or membership-related costs.

Kaitlyn Buss, an ALEC spokeswoman, said voter photo ID legislation was brought to ALEC by a state lawmaker and was "turned into a resource" for other state lawmakers. She said ALEC wasn't promoting it as an initiative and did not put a lot of effort or resources into the proposed legislation.

As for corporations' involvement, voter photo ID legislation "still has to go through the same process" as other bills and "it's really up to the people electing their legislators and the Legislature" whether such a law is passed, Buss said.

Although Koch Industries is the oft-cited corporate sponsor of ALEC and certainly one of its largest, there are others, including Wal-Mart, Coca-Cola and AT&T. Robinson would not say whether they were targets of his campaign.

Email and voicemail messages left Thursday with AT&T, Coca-Cola and Wal-Mart media relations departments by The Associated Press were not immediately returned.

ALEC's corporate sponsors and some foundations pay for the vast majority of its work, which includes holding conventions and meetings where lawmakers and corporations collaborate on draft legislation, according to an investigation by The Center for Media and Democracy, a corporate and government watchdog group based in Madison, Wis.

On its website ALEC claims nearly 2,000 legislative members -- lawmakers or whole legislative bodies -- who pay a $100 two-year membership fee. It also has 300 corporate and private foundation members, who pay between $7,000 and $25,000 a year to join, and between $2,500 and $10,000 to be on one of its nine task forces that develop the legislation.

ALEC is a 501(c)(3) non-profit. In its 2010 filing with the Internal Revenue Service, ALEC reported that $84,883 of its revenue, about 1.2 percent, came from membership dues and almost $6 million from other sources, which would include the corporate support and another $1.2 million from conferences and seminars, according to the tax forms it filed for 2010 and analysis by Center for Media and Democracy. ALEC's total revenue reported for 2010 was $7.2 million.

Robinson said his group's campaign is not targeting ALEC itself.

"Our target here is corporations and asking them where they stand, where they stand on democracy," he said.

------

Follow Suzanne Gamboa on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/APsgamboa

--------

Online: ColorofChange: http://www.colorofchange.org

American Legislative Exchange Council: http://www.alec.org

ALECexposed: http://www.alecexposed.org

7      

Document APRS000020111209e7c9001c7



Advocates: Companies can't support black consumers and those pushing restrictive voting laws

By SUZANNE GAMBOA      
Associated Press      
807 words
8 December 2011
05:03 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2011.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

WASHINGTON (AP) - An online advocacy group is urging corporations that market to African-Americans to stop giving money to a conservative organization working for stricter voting laws.

The group, ColorofChange, is targeting companies that support the American Legislative Exchange Council, or ALEC, a nonprofit that has helped states pass photo ID laws, which are criticized by minority and civil rights groups. Its members include legislators and corporations, who pay higher fees to join.

Executive director Rashad Robinson is not yet naming the companies, but said Wednesday his group has already asked them once to drop their financial support of ALEC. ColorofChange also is asking its more than 800,000 individual members to sign a letter asking ALEC's corporate members, which include Coca Cola and Wal-Mart among others, to end their support for the group.

The intent, Robinson said, is to "place their brand next to these discriminatory voter ID laws and their impact."

"The corporations behind this can't come to us for our dollars 364 days of the week and disenfranchise us on the 365th," Robinson said.

Last year, 14 states approved 25 measures related to voting, from requiring photo IDs at the ballot box to restricting voting by ex-felons. Critics of the laws say they would have a negative effect on African-Americans, Latinos, students and the elderly.

The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People said this week it will gather information on an new early voting law in Florida in order to make the case to the Justice Department that the stricter laws were a coordinated assault on minorities' voting rights at a time when their numbers in the population and at voting booths have increased.

Some of the voting measures gained momentum through ALEC, which provides "models" of bills to corporate sponsors and legislative members who can then tweak them and propose them in their state legislatures.

Some lawmakers who sponsored the legislation are members of ALEC. The Fort Worth (Texas) Star-Telegram reported this month that half of the members of the Texas Legislature, which passed a law requiring specific types of photo IDs required to vote, have ties to ALEC and most used public money to pay dues or membership-related costs.

Kaitlyn Buss, an ALEC spokeswoman, said voter photo ID legislation was brought to ALEC by a state lawmaker and was "turned into a resource" for other state lawmakers. She said ALEC wasn't promoting it as an initiative and did not put a lot of effort or resources into the proposed legislation.

As for corporations' involvement, voter photo ID legislation "still has to go through the same process" as other bills and "it's really up to the people electing their legislators and the Legislature" whether such a law is passed, Buss said.

Although Koch Industries is the oft-cited corporate sponsor of ALEC and certainly one of its largest, there are others, including Wal-Mart, Coca-Cola and AT&T. Robinson would not say whether they were targets of his campaign.

Email and voicemail messages left Thursday with AT&T, Coca-Cola and Wal-Mart media relations departments by The Associated Press were not immediately returned.

ALEC's corporate sponsors and some foundations pay for the vast majority of its work, which includes holding conventions and meetings where lawmakers and corporations collaborate on draft legislation, according to an investigation by The Center for Media and Democracy, a corporate and government watchdog group based in Madison, Wis.

On its website ALEC claims nearly 2,000 legislative members -- lawmakers or whole legislative bodies -- who pay a $100 two-year membership fee. It also has 300 corporate and private foundation members, who pay between $7,000 and $25,000 a year to join, and between $2,500 and $10,000 to be on one of its nine task forces that develop the legislation.

ALEC is a 501(c)(3) non-profit. In its 2010 filing with the Internal Revenue Service, ALEC reported that $84,883 of its revenue, about 1.2 percent, came from membership dues and almost $6 million from other sources, which would include the corporate support and another $1.2 million from conferences and seminars, according to the tax forms it filed for 2010 and analysis by Center for Media and Democracy. ALEC's total revenue reported for 2010 was $7.2 million.

Robinson said his group's campaign is not targeting ALEC itself.

"Our target here is corporations and asking them where they stand, where they stand on democracy," he said.

------

Follow Suzanne Gamboa on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/APsgamboa

--------

Online: ColorofChange: http://www.colorofchange.org

American Legislative Exchange Council: http://www.alec.org

ALECexposed: http://www.alecexposed.org

7      

Document APRS000020111208e7c8002br



Sam's Club® and The Salvation Army Make Holiday Dreams Come True for Families in Need with Fifth Annual Dream Drive Campaign

960 words
6 December 2011
09:48 AM
PR Newswire (U.S.)
PRN
English
Copyright ©    2011    PR Newswire Association LLC.    All Rights Reserved.      


Nationwide initiative will provide $200,000 worth of food and gifts during the holiday season for 200 families 
 

BENTONVILLE, Ark., Dec. 6, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- The holidays are in full swing and Sam's Club is teaming up with The Salvation Army and Off the Field professional football players' wives association for the fifth annual Dream Drive for the Salvation Army. Twenty pre-selected families from the Salvation Army Adopt-A-Family program in 10 different cities will receive $1,000 worth of gifts, including food, clothes, personal items and toys from Sam's Club. As part of the Dream Drive campaign, Off the Field representatives will be shopping at their local Sam's Clubs on Dec 8 to purchase items for these families.

"Giving back to our local communities has been a long-standing part of our culture at Sam's Club," said Cindy O'Connor, Home and Apparel vice president for Sam's Club. "Our partnership with The Salvation Army and Off the Field allows us to help make the holidays a little brighter for families in need through the annual Dream Drive campaign."

Sam's Club will donate $200,000 through the Dream Drive program this holiday season to provide gifts and personal items for 200 Salvation Army families in the following cities:


   -- Baltimore 
 
   -- Charlotte, NC 
 
   -- Chicago 
 
   -- Dallas 
 
   -- Houston 
 
   -- Indianapolis 
 
   -- Kansas City, Mo. 
 
   -- Philadelphia 
 
   -- Phoenix 
 
   -- Washington, D.C. 
 

"The partnership with Sam's Club for the past four years has allowed Dream Drive to become an annual tradition that is important for so many families," said Major George Hood, national community relations and development secretary for The Salvation Army. "The Salvation Army appreciates the continued support of Sam's Club and its customers, who have allowed us to provide critical services to those in need during the winter months and beyond with Dream Drive and The Red Kettle Campaign."

"Off the Field is excited to continue our partnership with Sam's Club and The Salvation Army and our involvement in Sam's Club Dream Drive," said Ericka Lassiter, president of Off the Field. "This rewarding and amazing experience has become an event our members anxiously await each year. Giving back to our communities is one of the main focuses of our organization. Dream Drive presents our members with the opportunity to make dreams come true for many families during the holiday season. We are excited that this year Off the Field will be participating in 10 cities helping 200 families! We are truly honored to participate and humbled by this experience."

This year, Sam's Club and Walmart will host Salvation Army iconic red kettles and bell ringers outside locations nationwide during The Salvation Army's 120th Red Kettle Campaign now through Dec 24. For more than 20 years, both Sam's Club and Walmart have been partners of The Salvation Army, providing a place for volunteers to collect donations that benefit local communities nationwide.

To learn more about the Sam's Club Dream Drive or for more information regarding the partnership with The Salvation Army and Off the Field, visit SamsClub.com/giving.

About Sam's Club Sam's Club, a division of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT), is the nation's eighth largest retailer and a leading membership warehouse club offering superior products and services to more than 47 million Members in clubs across the U.S., as well as in Brazil, China and Mexico. Members save an average of 30 percent over traditional retailers. To learn more about Savings Made Simple(R), visit SamsClub.com and look for Sam's Club on Twitter, Facebook and our mobile app.

Sam's Club Giving Sam's Club supports community-based programs that empower young people, families and small businesses to make smart choices that lead to healthy and bright futures. Through cash and in-kind donations, as well as the dedication of Associates, Sam's Club is committed to making an impact in areas that align with the company, and with the passions and interests of Members. In 2010, the Sam's Club Giving Program made cash and in-kind contributions of more than $89 million, which included donating more than 39 million meals. To learn more, visit http://www.samsclub.com/giving.

About The Salvation Army The Salvation Army, an evangelical part of the universal Christian church established in 1865, has been supporting those in need in His name without discrimination for more than 130 years in the United States. Nearly 30 million Americans receive assistance from The Salvation Army each year through the broadest array of social services that range from providing food for the hungry, relief for disaster victims, assistance for the disabled, outreach to the elderly and ill, clothing and shelter to the homeless and opportunities for underprivileged children. 82 cents of every dollar spent is used to support those services in 5,000 communities nationwide. For more information, go to www.salvationarmyusa.org.

About Off the Field Off the Field was established on February 16, 2006, in Washington, D.C., as a national non-profit organization. The organization is comprised solely of the spouses of active and retired NFL Players. OTF is a 501 (c)(3) charitable organization that strives to be a resource to all its members and their communities. The purpose of OTF is to have an alliance of women within a network who are fully committed to collectively affect change within themselves as well as their surrounding communities.

SOURCE Sam's Club

/

Christi Gallagher of Sam's Club, 1-800-331-0085, Christi.Gallagher@samsclub.com, SamsClub.com/newsroom    |            Web site:      http://www.samsclub.com

Document PRN0000020111206e7c6000eb

Civil Actions
CIVIL ACTIONS

280 words
5 December 2011
The National Law Journal
NLJ
18
Volume 34; Issue 14
English
Copyright 2011 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

The following cases were recently filed in the Washington-area district courts. This information is provided by the district courts' official online bulletins.

U.S. DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

Birmingham Southern Railroad Co. v. United Transportation Union (No. 11-CV-02097, Nov. 23)

Assigned to Judge John Bates. Federal question: Railway Labor Act. Attorney for plaintiff: Jeffrey Berlin, Sidley Austin, Washington.

Woodson v. Howard University (No. 11-CV-02106, Nov. 28)

Assigned to Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly. Federal question: job discrimination. Demand: $10 million. Attorneys for plaintiffs: Christal Edwards, Edwards Legal Group, Largo, Md., and Steven Bullock, Law Office of Steven E. Bullock, Washington.

U.S. DISTRICT COURT IN GREENBELT, MD.

Holy Cross Hospital of Silver Spring Inc. v. Holy Cross Home Health Care Plus Inc. (No. 11-CV-03402, Nov. 23)

Assigned to Judge Roger Titus. Federal question: trademark infringement. Attorneys for plaintiffs: Geoffrey Townsend Hervey and Christine Sindall Pugh, Bregman, Berbert, Schwartz & Gilday, Bethesda, Md.

Fabian v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (No. 11-CV-03414, Nov. 28)

Assigned to Judge Alexander Williams Jr. Federal question: job discrimination. Attorney for plaintiff: Lee Boothby, Law Offices of Lee Boothby, Washington.

U.S. DISTRICT COURT IN ALEXANDRIA, VA.

Best Medical International Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank N.A. (No. 11-CV-01277, Nov. 22)

Assigned to Judge Liam O'Grady. Federal question: civil rights. Demand: $12 million. Attorney for plaintiffs: James Michael Brady, Best Medical International Inc., Springfield, Va.

Walden v. Ramco Virginia Properties LLC (No. 11-CV-01286, Nov. 23)

Assigned to Judge Liam O'Grady. Federal question: Americans With Disabilities Act. Attorney for plaintiff: Shabnam Khalili, Ku & Mussman, Alexandria, Va.

Document NLJ0000020111212e7c50000v

Editorial
PUBLIC FORUM

1,153 words
2 December 2011
Los Angeles Daily News
LAD
VALLEY
A16
English
© 2011 Los Angeles Daily News.    Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.    All rights reserved.        

Black Friday chaos

No one seems to realize that the chaos in Porter Ranch on Black Friday happened also at the Torrance Walmart, minus the pepper spray. I was standing up against the giant cardboard box of half- price Xbox games when the employees abandoned it 10 minutes prior to the 10 p.m. sale. When they left I was immediately knocked to the ground from the surge of people behind me trying to grab games. I crawled my way out, people stealing games out of my arms as I retreated.

The dangerous environment was entirely the making of Walmart. When I arrived at the store at 8 p.m., I spoke with numerous managers and employees about setting up a line to dispense the games in an orderly fashion. No attempts were made to stop the riot. Walmart obviously does not care about the safety of its customers or its employees.

- Kelly Wong, Torrance

Horse back on menu

Horse slaughter plants are legal again in the U.S. Restrictions on horse meat processing for human consumption have been lifted. As the country was celebrating Thanksgiving, President Barack Obama signed a law allowing Americans to kill and eat horses. Horse slaughter has been prohibited in the United States as funding for inspections of horses in transit and at slaughter houses was nonexistent. This worked because horse meat cannot be sold for human consumption without such inspections.

Notwithstanding that 70 percent of Americans oppose horse slaughter and Obama made a campaign promise to permanently ban horse slaughter and exports of horses for human consumption, taxpayers will bear the costs. During these trying times, the only thing that Democrats and Republicans can agree on is that Americans need to eat horses?

- Madeline Bernstein, Los Angeles

The writer is president of the Society for the

Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

A lobbyist and a harasser

Reviewing today's Republican presidential candidates we must really dumb down to believe Newt Gingrich is not a lobbyist and Herman Cain was not guilty of sexual harassment. The definition a lobbyist (according to Webster) is one who tries to influence legislators. The definition of sexual harassment is Herman Cain's actions with women.

-Donald A. Dzienis, Bellflower

Different meaning

I have finally figured out Herman Cain. His definition of wrong is different than my definition of wrong.

- Venida Korda, Van Nuys

Davis students had warning

Re "Police brutality unacceptable" (Letters, Nov. 27):

The writer claims that police brutality was involved when the occupiers of Oakland, Davis, Oklahoma City and New York were asked to leave. I am most familiar with the situation at Davis, where my daughter attended school. The Occupiers were told repeatedly to move, and told that pepper spray would be used to evict them if they continued to defy the legal order to evacuate the public areas they were occupying. The choice was simple. Leave as requested or get pepper-sprayed. The students chose the pepper spray.

Kind of makes you wonder what they are being taught in school. I think trashing public property and denying others the right to use it is unacceptable.

- Harry Komsky, Redondo Beach

High food truck standards

Re "Torrance food-truck raid outrages fundraisers" (Nov. 27):

Hats off to the city of Torrance and the Torrance Police Department for monitoring the lunch wagons at a school benefit recently. I have lived in many cities in Southern California, and Torrance is one of the best cities to live in.

I'm in outside sales during the day and travel to many run-down cities. When I head home to Torrance, I get a sense of peace and quiet. Torrance does a great job keeping the city clean and respectful. We don't see street vendors selling flowers on the corner - a block down from a flower shop that is paying rent and high taxes. Torrance gets it.

I laughed when the organizers of the benefit blamed the city for ambushing them. What? Were the vendors informed they must have a business license to deal in the city of Torrance? Thank you, Torrance, for keeping this a nice American city.

- Kim Wilson, Torrance

Insurers the big winners

The current hoopla about the millions in savings to consumers after Lipitor went generic makes me smile. I may not be typical, but with my insurance, I pay $15 for 90 days for a brand name and $5 for 90 days of a generic. Thus my annual savings would be $40. But my insurance company stands to save a great deal! I suspect that a similar situation exists for most people who have some kind of prescription insurance. The big winners are quite probably the health insurance companies, and we benefit indirectly from their reduced costs.

- Mike McCarthy, Long Beach

Opera woes worry subscribers

Thank you so much for the article on the Civic Light Opera on Sunday. It sounds like the cities of Redondo Beach, Lawndale and El Segundo are saying one thing, and James Blackman is saying another, and they are not all on the same page.

As a longtime subscriber to the CLO, I am very disappointed in the way James and the board have handled things. Emails, phone calls and letters get no response, and many of us who have invested many dollars in tickets have received no guarantee we will get to see shows we paid for or receive a refund. If they can't pay their back rent, you can bet we can all kiss our money goodbye.

- B. Taggart, Torrance

Impact of Occupy L.A.

Once again, the Los Angeles taxpayers are left with not only the cleanup costs of Occupy L.A. but the overtime needed for the police to disperse these people. Thanks, Mayor Villaraigosa, for letting the Occupy L.A. protesters hang around and ultimately cost the taxpayers thousands of dollars that could have been better spent on much-needed repairs and improvements. We have trees needing trimming, sidewalks that are buckling, potholes in the streets and basic services cut due to cutbacks.

- Albert Viola, Porter Ranch

Jobs on juries

As I approach the week where I will have to show up and serve jury duty, it occurred to me that there's a whole lot of unemployed folks out there. Why aren't the courts calling them up to serve on juries?

As an employed person (and yes, I'm very thankful to have my job), I have to make so many arrangements at work before I can take a week off. And since I work at a university, it affects our service to students whom are the prime focus of my job.

I'm sure the unemployment rolls could be made available to the court system. And couldn't people out of work use the extra bit of money they pay for jury service?

- Cynthia Schultheis, Long Beach

Letters to the editor      

Document LAD0000020111203e7c20000d

Local
Black Friday at Walden Galleria well-policed

T.J. Pignataro      
NEWS STAFF REPORTER      
929 words
2 December 2011
Buffalo News
BFNW
Final
D10
English
© 2011 Buffalo News.    Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.    All rights reserved.        

Black Friday at Walden Galleria might well have been called Blue Friday.

That's because Cheektowaga police officers responded to 41 calls at the area's premier shopping center in the 24-hour period that began at midnight Thanksgiving, according to Cheektowaga police reports.

The calls were overwhelmingly minor, ranging from mall patrons locking themselves out of their vehicles to disputes over parking spots. But police did arrest 13 people throughout the day, mainly for shoplifting. And there were at least two calls for serious medical conditions, including a seizure and a heart attack, reports showed.

It wasn't much of a surprise to police brass, who had anticipated shopping activity at the mall and nearly tripled staffing in advance of the day to make sure police could respond, according to Cheektowaga Police Capt. James Speyer.

"That's an average Black Friday," said Speyer, who pointed out that police also responded to numerous calls at other area shopping centers, including the Thruway Plaza, Sam's Club Plaza on Union Road and a strip of shopping locations along Walden Avenue.

"We gear up for [Black Friday] like it's any other special event - - a festival, parade and so on," Speyer said. "Obviously, there are costs associated with it, but on the flip side, it creates revenue for the town."

It shouldn't surprise anyone that there's a police presence at the 1.6 million-square-foot shopping center that attracts 20 million shoppers every year, said John Ecklund, Walden Galleria's general manager.

"This is thought of as Main Street, Cheektowaga," Ecklund said. "When you consider the amount of cars through the parking lot, it's minor."

Despite the volume of calls, police officials noted that none was severe.

"Nobody was injured. There were no threats. There was no point where we had to worry about public safety," Speyer said about Walden Galleria, where the department deployed foot patrols throughout the day. "Who knows? Maybe our strong presence prevented it."

That's something some shopping centers in other parts of the country can't say. Reports of Black Friday malevolence nationwide quickly hit the news wires. A sampling of those included:

*The hospitalization of two Walmart shoppers and arrest of one more in Rome, N.Y., after fights erupted a minute after midnight when shoppers were let into an electronics department there.

*Twenty customers, including children, injured in an affluent neighborhood Walmart near Los Angeles when a "competitive shopper" released pepper spray just after 1 a.m. in hopes of gaining an edge on other shoppers.

*A 2 a.m. shootout at a Fayetteville, N.C., mall that occurred when as many as three gunmen opened fire, scattering holiday shoppers. No one was struck by the gunfire.

At Walden Galleria, even car break-ins have become rare.

The sole car break-in was reported at 5:22 a.m. Police reports showed three televisions were stolen from an Ontario resident's van near the Sears entrance.

In other larger shopping centers locally, area police also reported no significant problems related to Black Friday shopping.

At the 530,000-square-foot Fashion Outlets of Niagara Falls on Military Road, Town of Niagara Police Chief James Suitor said his department logged a dozen calls over the Thanksgiving weekend.

Four of the calls resulted in arrests, Suitor said, including three for shoplifting and one for drug possession.

Like Cheektowaga, police there prepare in advance for the influx of holiday shoppers, Suitor said. Niagara town police hold strategy sessions with state police and the Niagara County Sheriff's Office to keep Black Friday shopping running smoothly.

"We do dedicate additional patrols to that retail area along Military Road and coordinate with Niagara Falls police to handle the [nearby] Walmart," Suitor said. "We coordinate our resources for keeping visible patrols as a crime deterrent."

After several years of a midnight opening, stores at the outlets opened this year at 10 p.m. on Thanksgiving. That meant working with mall security to help keep order among those eager customers who arrive early, hoping to be first in line.

At any one time, Suitor estimated, there may be upwards of 60,000 shoppers at the outlet, nearby Walmart and other area retail shops. That's a lot of shoppers and a lot of cars to keep an eye on.

Like Walden Galleria, just a single "car-popping" was reported on Black Friday, he said.

Police in Amherst, Hamburg and Clarence reported similar success.

Amherst Police Capt. Michael Camilleri said officers were called to Boulevard Mall six times on Black Friday. Each call, Camilleri said, involved "nothing out of the ordinary."

And, in Hamburg, the six calls Hamburg police responded to Friday at McKinley Mall didn't even match its daily high for the month -- 7 on Nov. 11, according to Hamburg Police Capt. Kevin Trask.

Of those six on Black Friday, there were two for shoplifting and one each for an early morning hit-and-run in the parking lot, lost property, a harassment complaint and a traffic stop, he said.

Erie County sheriff's deputies responded to four holiday shopping-related calls on Black Friday in Clarence, two of which were to Eastern Hills Mall for shoplifting, said Mary Murray, Sheriff's Office spokeswoman.

She said the most significant call deputies handled was the theft of six televisions, a DVD player and a coffeemaker after a shopper left the Walmart on Transit Road, Clarence, without paying.

email: tpignataro@buffnews.com

Document BFNW000020111203e7c200034

EEOC Sues Wal-Mart for Refusal to Allow Handicap Parking

Tara Cantore      
304 words
1 December 2011
Plan Sponsor
PLNSPR
English
© 2011. Asset International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

According to the lawsuit, Wal-Mart later fired the worker because of his disability and in retaliation for asserting his civil rights.

David Gallo worked at the Wal-Mart in Placerville, California,  starting in June 2003. During his six years at the store, Gallo’s successful performance was reflected in promotions from overnight stocker to manager of the store’s tire lube express bay, the EEOC said.

Gallo has atrial fibrillation, a heart condition that causes shortness of breath and difficulty walking. In March 2008, the new store manager barred Gallo from parking in the handicap parking spaces and any spaces close to the front of the store, despite the company’s knowledge that Gallo had a disability. Gallo filed a charge with the EEOC for Wal-Mart’s failure to accommodate his disability in September 2008. Eight months later, he was fired allegedly for an error made by a subordinate, even though the subordinate and the inspector who had reviewed his work were not discharged.

“Letting me park closer to my job was a little thing for Wal-Mart, but would have made a big difference to me,” stated Gallo. “The store manager made me move to the back of the parking lot, even after I showed him my handicap placard. I asked for a simple accommodation, and I lost my job over it.”

After first attempting to reach a pre-litigation settlement through conciliation, the EEOC filed the lawsuit (EEOC v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., No. 2:11-AT-01806)  in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of California, and is seeking monetary damages on behalf of Gallo, training of Wal-Mart employees on the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and other steps to prevent future discrimination.

Document PLNSPR0020120322e7c10005k

Wal-Mart's fair lending impact: a lack of claim "commonality" has raised the class-action bar, for now.(LEGAL ISSUES)

Taylor, Greg      
532 words
1 December 2011
ABA Banking Journal
ABAB
37
ISSN: 0194-5947; Volume 103; Issue 12
English
(c) 2011 Information Access Company. All rights reserved.      

Two recent federal court decisions suggest that it may be more difficult for plaintiffs to bring large class-action lawsuits alleging fair-lending claims. Taking their cue from last summer's blockbuster Supreme Court opinion in Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes, two federal courts--one in California and the other in Pennsylvania--have declined to certify large class actions pursuing Fair Lending Act/Equal Credit Opportunity Act claims on the grounds that they lacked the necessary "commonality" required under the Supreme Court's decision in Wal-Mart.

A little background is in order. Among the things an aspiring class plaintiff must demonstrate is that the case's outcome turns upon questions of law or fact that are common to all class members. Because a class action litigates not only claims of named parties but those who are "similarly situated," the court must assure itself that the claims are sufficiently alike or "common" legally and factually, so as to fairly bind parties who are not before it.

This concept of "commonality" was front and center in Wal-Mart. At issue was a massive class-action suit brought by Wal-Mart employees that focused on the company's policy of allowing local supervisors discretion with respect to hiring and employment matters. The Court concluded that Wal-Mart's policy was "[o]n its face ... just the opposite of a uniform employment practice that would provide the commonality needed for a class action; it is a policy against having uniform employment practices."

It is a lack of "commonality" or "typicality" of borrowers' fair-lending claims that has (for now) raised the bar for certifying class actions in the fairlending area. Two cases--In re: Wells Fargo Residential Mortgage Lending Discrimination (Northern District of California) and Rodriguez v. National City Bank (Eastern District of Pennsylvania)--rejected requests to certify large classes of residential borrowers on the grounds that the underlying claims lacked the requisite "commonality." The thread that runs through both decisions is that each bank used a credit pricing policy that gave loan officers discretion to authorize certain additional interest rate markups, etc., after a finance rate was determined by objective criteria. In each case, it was this discretion that proved fatal to the plaintiffs' efforts to certify the class.

Relying upon Wal-Mart, both courts concluded that the potential differences among prospective borrowers--both as to their stated goals and needs as well as their individual circumstances, such as creditworthiness--could bear upon the exercise of a loan officer's discretion, rendering it impossible for plaintiffs to establish the requisite "commonality" of their claims across the class.

Indeed, as noted in the Rodriguez decision, a viable class alleging a fair-lending cause of action would probably be limited to borrowers who could show a disparate impact that is tied to loans approved by a specific loan officer or, at a minimum, a group of loan officers working for a specific supervisor.

Greg Taylor is associate general counsel of the American Bankers Association. You can reach him at gtaylor@aba.com

Document ABAB000020111229e7c10000l

Deals & Suits
IN RE WELLS FARGO MORTGAGE LENDING    DISCRIMINATION  LITIGATION

NATE RAYMOND, WITH TOM COSTER      
536 words
1 December 2011
Corporate Counsel
CCNSEL
33
Volume 13; Issue 12
English
Copyright 2011 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

The U.S. Supreme Court's June ruling in Wal-Mart Stores Inc. v. Dukes might not have turned out to be the class action silver bullet that some had anticipated, but that's little consolation to class action plaintiffs lawyers who brought claims against Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., over allegedly discriminatory subprime lending.

In a victory for the bank's counsel, Reed Smith's Robert "Bo" Phillips, on September 6 San Francisco federal district court judge Maxine Chesney rejected the plaintiffs' class certification motion, ruling that an enormous proposed class of nearly 1 million black and Hispanic homeowners didn't survive the certification standard for commonality set out by the Supreme Court in Dukes.

In four class actions filed against the bank beginning the summer of 2007 and later consolidated, plaintiffs claimed that black and Hispanic homeowners were charged more—some $560 million more, according to data they had collected—than white borrowers with similar credit histories during the first five years of their mortgages. Plaintiffs moved to certify the class in October 2010, citing the earlier February 2007 appellate decision in Dukes affirming certification of the mammoth Dukes class. But following the high court's 5-to-4 reversal of that decision this past June, Wells Fargo argued that the certification arguments had been "discredited."

Despite the statistical evidence that the two co–lead plaintiffs firms, Bonnett, Fairbourn, Friedman & Balint and Roddy Klein & Ryan, provided, Judge Chesney sided with the bank, ruling that the plaintiffs failed to show that the bank's loan officers used a "common mode of exercising discretion."

The Wells Fargo case isn't the only discriminatory lending case in which the two plaintiffs firms have run up against Dukes. In August the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit remanded a case that the firms brought against Option One Mortgage Corporation to federal district court in Boston to consider the applicability of Dukes. Meanwhile, lawyers at Goodwin Procter are pushing to apply the Wal-Mart decision in another putative class action—not handled by Bonnett, Fairbourn—against Bank of America Corporation's Countrywide unit in federal district court in Louisville.

Plaintiffs had not appealed at press time.

For the plaintiffs

Bonnett, Fairbourn, Friedman & Balint:

Andrew Friedman, Wendy Harrison, Patricia Syverson, and associate Guy Hanson. (They are in Phoenix.) The firm was court-appointed co–lead counsel.

Roddy Klein & Ryan:

Gary Klein and Shennan Kavanagh. (They are in Boston.) The firm was co–lead counsel.

Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd:

Robert Rothman, Samuel Rudman, and Shawn Williams. (Williams is in San Francisco; and Rothman and Rudman are in New York.) The firm was interim liaison counsel.

For defendant Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (San Francisco)

Reed Smith:

Tyree Jones, Jr., Antony Klapper, James Martin, Mark Melodia, Robert "Bo" Phillips, Jr., David Reidy, and associates Luke Bowman and Tiffany Thomas. (Jones and Klapper are in Washington, D.C.; Martin is in Pittsburgh; Melodia is in Princeton; and the rest are in San Francisco.) Wells Fargo is a longtime client; Phillips led the team.

E-mail: editorial@alm.com.      

Document CCNSEL0020111201e7c10000e

Environmental Law
No Class: Tougher Certification Standards In Environmental Mass-Tort Cases

By Richard F. Ricci and Adam B. Lavinthal      
1,417 words
28 November 2011
New Jersey Law Journal
NJLJ
S-5
Volume 206; Issue 9
English
Copyright 2011 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

The United States Supreme Court opinion in Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes, 131 U.S. 2541 (2011), significantly heightened the standard for putative class action plaintiffs to meet the commonality element of class certification. Although Wal-Mart was an employment discrimination case, two recent opinions suggest that its exacting standards will be applied in environmental mass-tort matters as well. Both opinions, relying at least in part on the heightened certification standards articulated in Wal-Mart, focused on deficiencies in the commonality element to deny certification.

Rule 23(a)(2) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure requires class representatives to show that their claims share a common question of law or fact with the members of the proposed class whom they seek to represent. Prior to the decision in Wal-Mart, courts typically treated the Rule 23(a)(2) commonality requirement as a low hurdle that could be overcome with a single common question of law or fact among the members of the proposed class. In environmental matters, for example, this standard could be met by showing the existence of such common questions as whether the defendant emitted contaminants from its facility, causing damages, or whether the defendant violated a particular statute.

In Wal-Mart, the Court increased this burden significantly by holding that:

Commonality requires the plaintiff to demonstrate that the class members 'have suffered the same injury.' This does not mean merely that they have all suffered a violation of the same provision of law. ... Their claims must depend upon a common contention. ... That common contention, moreover, must be of such a nature that it is capable of classwide resolution — which means that determination of its truth or falsity will resolve an issue that is central to the validity of each one of the claims in one stroke.

Wal-Mart, thus, requires that class members not only share a significant common question, but also that the common question be capable of class-wide resolution.

Henry, et al. v. Dow Chemical Co., No. 03-47775-NZ, Saginaw County Circuit Court, Michigan (July 18, 2011), was one of the first cases to apply this heightened Rule 23(a)(2) commonality requirement. The court in Henry considered certification of a class of more than 2,000 property owners claiming that dioxin contamination had damaged the value of their properties. In 2005, the court found that the plaintiffs had satisfied Michigan's certification requirements, including Michigan's equivalent of the Rule 23(a)(2) commonality requirement, and certified the class. However, on remand on a different issue, the court decided to reconsider its commonality ruling in light of Wal-Mart.

Relying on Wal-Mart, the court reversed its initial decision and denied certification, based on the plaintiffs' "failure to establish the commonality prerequisite," citing "the absence of a 'glue' to hold all of the plaintiffs' claims together." The court held that, even assuming the defendant had contaminated the plaintiffs' properties, the nature of individual plaintiffs' injuries involved "highly individualized factual inquiries" for each property, including levels of contamination, the different remediation requirements and different stages of remediation, and the fact that some of the properties had been sold.

The court also extended this reasoning to the plaintiffs' nuisance claims, finding that these also required an "individualized factual inquiry" into whether each plaintiff suffered an interference with the use and enjoyment of his or her property. In light of the individualized factual inquiries, the court ruled that the plaintiffs could not demonstrate the existence of a "common contention that is capable of class-wide resolution."

In addition to meeting the prerequisites of Rule 23(a), a prospective class must also qualify under one of the categories of Rule 23(b), which include their own requirements with respect to commonality. Rule 23(b)(2) applies to classes seeking injunctive or declaratory relief and requires that "the party opposing the class has acted or refused to act on grounds that apply generally to the class, so that final injunctive relief or corresponding declaratory relief is appropriate respecting the class as a whole."

Because all Rule 23(b)(2) class members will be bound by a single judgment, such a class must be cohesive and share a strong commonality of interests. Wal-Mart, 131 U.S. at 2558. Predominance is a similar concept to commonality under Rule 23(a)(2) and is required for classes certified under Rule 23(b)(3). The predominance requirement is satisfied if "the court finds that the questions of law or fact common to class members predominate over any questions affecting only individual members."

In Gates v. Rohm & Haas Co., 2011 WL 3715817 (3d Cir. Aug. 25, 2011), the plaintiffs alleged that vinylidene chloride contained in wastewater discharged by the defendants degraded into vinyl chloride that later evaporated and drifted over the town over the course of several years. The plaintiffs sought certification under Rule 23(b)(2) or 23(b)(3) of a medical monitoring class consisting of present and former town residents who were exposed to vinyl chloride but not diagnosed with injuries. The United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, relying in part on Wal-Mart, upheld the district court's denial of class certification.

In denying certification, the district court had found that the medical monitoring class lacked the cohesiveness necessary to certify a class under Rule 23(b)(2), because individual issues predominated over common issues with respect to at least three elements of the medical monitoring claim: (1) proof of exposure to vinyl chloride greater than background levels; (2) proof of a significantly increased risk of contracting a latent disease; and (3) proof that a medical monitoring regime was necessary.

For example, with respect to exposure, the court found statistical modeling to estimate the dispersion of vinyl chloride over the town to be insufficient to reflect the exposure of any actual class member, thus rendering it unsuitable as common proof. According to the court, the model does "not reflect that different persons may have different levels of exposure based on biological factors or individual activities over the class period." The court further held that "[t]he evidence here is not 'common' because it is not shared by all (possibly even most) individuals in the class."

The court of appeals also affirmed the district court's rejection of the plaintiffs' claims that they could prove the need for medical monitoring on a classwide basis, holding that medical necessity could not be proven "without further individual proceedings to consider class members' individual characteristics and medical histories and to weigh the benefits and safety of a monitoring program." As a result, the plaintiffs could not demonstrate the cohesiveness required for certification.

In affirming the denial of certification, the court applied Wal-Mart's focus on the importance of cohesiveness in evaluating a Rule 23(b)(2) class, to the plaintiffs' proposed medical monitoring class. The court noted Wal-Mart's clarification that "Rule 23(b)(2) applies only when a single injunction or declaratory judgment would provide relief to each member of the class," and further highlighted the importance of cohesiveness since "all class members will be bound by a single judgment." In applying these principles to the plaintiffs' proposed medical-monitoring class, the court in Gates found that questions of causation, exposure and medical necessity required consideration of plaintiffs' individual characteristics and individual proof, which would prevent any single judgment from providing relief to all members of the proposed class. The "common" proof put forth by the plaintiffs failed to account for such individual characteristics and, thus, failed to satisfy Wal-Mart's cohesiveness requirement.

As the above cases demonstrate, the Supreme Court's decision in Wal-Mart raises the bar for class certification in environmental mass tort cases. The decision in Henry calls into question whether a property-damage class can ever be certified where the basis for the claim is dissemination of hazardous substances over a large number of properties. Similarly, the decision in Gates suggests that certification of medical monitoring classes based on widespread exposure to hazardous substances will be much more difficult in the post-Wal-Mart world.

Ricci is a member of Lowenstein Sandler and chair of the firm's environmental law and litigation group. Lavinthal is counsel in the firm's litigation department and a member of its environmental law and litigation group.      

Document NJLJ000020111128e7bs00016



Books
Save money. Live Better. Sort of. ; By Katharine Whittemore

Please Discuss      
Please Discuss      
961 words
27 November 2011
The Boston Globe
BSTNGB
C.7
English
© 2011 New York Times Company.    Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.    All Rights Reserved.      

Reading books about Walmart is a true whiplash experience.

It's had such bad press you're set to hate it. Then you learn it's the world's biggest seller of organic milk and cotton, sustaining thousands of forward-thinking farmers. So you grudgingly admire it, and then you find it pays such pitiful wages that many employees actually qualify for welfare. In the good-guy column: Walmart saves the average American household $2,300 a year and singularly shone during Hurricane Katrina, handing out food and supplies for free. In the bad: It divebombs local economies, and recently was accused of sex discrimination in the biggest class action suit in history (which got thrown out for technical reasons, but still).

The chain stirs up such a stormy response, various New England communities have fought openings of stores. Take, for instance, Boston Mayor Thomas M. Menino's opposition this summer to Walmart nosing around a location in Roxbury.

To crick your neck even more, there's the company's mind-messing size. Nothing else compares. One-third of the US population, that's 100 million people, visits a Walmart each week. If you rank by revenue, it's the largest public corporation in the world, plus retailer, plus private employer, with more than 2 million "associates" (employees, in Walmart-speak). The company took in $421.8 billion last year. If it were a country - Walmartia? Walmartistan? - by some lights it would rank 25th, a shade ahead of Norway, with its li'l GDP of $414 billion.

Even so, who knew that something this big and controversial has also sparked a big and controversial book genre? But there you are, with titles ranging from puffery, like "The Walmart Way: The Inside Story of the Success of the World's Largest Company" (Thomas Nelson, 2005) to slash-and-burn: "How Walmart Is Destroying America (and the World): And What You Can Do About It" (Ten Speed Press, 2005).

There's even the grossly offensive: "People of Walmart: Shop and Awe" (Sourcebooks, 2010), a photography book making fun of Walmart shoppers. Class, of course, is the backbeat to all the commentary; nobody gets in a lather over Target. Many of Walmart's customers are low-income families - a fifth don't have a bank account - and the 99 percent of us drawn to those Everyday Low Prices. The 1 percent isn't even in the (made-in-China) frame. As Paris Hilton said, "Walmart . . . do they like make walls there?"

So which is the fairest one of all? That would have to be the smart, absorbing "The Walmart Effect: How The World's Most Powerful Company Really Works - and How It's Transforming the American Economy" (Penguin, 2006). The Economist listed it as a 2006 book of the year, and author Charles Fishman, a Fast Company senior editor, artfully details how Walmart's scale creates a universe all its own. That ruthless pursuit of low-cost goods, for instance, means its 100,000 suppliers must kowtow to price-cutting demands or die. (Vlasic Pickles, which eventually filed for bankruptcy reorganization, was rocked by Walmart's fiat to sell its one-gallon jars of pickles for an absurd $2.97). Fishman also nails the stateside effect of Walmart's mammoth outsourcing to China. As one textile manufacturer says, "We are shopping ourselves out of jobs."

So what's it like to work there? The crummy-employer story gets fine due in "Walmart: The Bully of Bentonville: How the High Cost of Everyday Low Prices Is Hurting America" (Doubleday, 2006) by BusinessWeek writer Anthony Bianco. His chapter on how Walmart hires is creepy-funny as an Ed Wood movie. Job applicants are shown a film with an ominous union organizer stalking the parking lot, for instance, and the firm is so bent on finding servile workers, it clumsily tries to screen out free spirits. Actual application-form question: " `I sometimes have some pretty wild daydreams.' A. Agree. B. Undecided. C. Disagree."

But here's the paradox; the miserliness that makes Walmart an adverse place to work also makes it a great place for sustainability. Ready to have your mind blown? Read "Force of Nature: The Unlikely Story of Walmart's Green Revolution" (HarperCollins, 2011) by Pulitzer Prize-winning Edward Humes. It shows how environmental activist Jib Ellison convinced CEO Lee Scott that going green would not only improve Walmart's miserable image but also save money. He takes Scott and other CEOs on consciousness- raising rafting trips, and has Walmart's notoriously insular execs meet with reps from the Environmental Defense Fund . . . even Al Gore . . . even Greenpeace!

Soon, Ellison helps Walmart set up "sustainable value networks" to root out waste in each division. Thus Unilever and Procter & Gamble are forced to switch to concentrated laundry detergent, saving on packaging and transportation costs. Hamburger Helper must eighty-six curly noodles for straight ones, since straight makes less bulk. By 2009, Walmart has all its suppliers create a worldwide sustainability index to make sure they're environmentally sound, and Scott pledges to achieve the goal of zero waste, and for the stores to be supplied 100 percent by renewable energy. All this adds up to, as environmentalist Hunter Lovins said, "The fall of the Berlin Wall in sustainability." Stunning. Then again, the critics counter, this greenwashing just distracts from the damage the Walmart economy inflicts. The only sustainable Walmart, they say, is a shuttered Walmart.

Again with the contradictions, again with the extremes. My head hurts.

Katharine Whittemore is a freelance writer based in Northampton. She can be reached at katharine.whittemore@ comcast.net.

27please.ART

Caption: gus wezerek/globe staff      

Document BSTNGB0020111127e7br00023



Outside Counsel
Does 'Dukes' Require Full 'Daubert' Scrutiny at Class Certification?

By Jonathan Gardner And Serena Hallowell      
1,991 words
25 November 2011
New York Law Journal
NYLJ
p.4, col.1
Volume 246; Issue 101
English
Copyright 2011 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

When moving or opposing a motion for class certification, litigants with increasing frequency rely on expert testimony. This has manifested in a debate among district courts, and more recently, among certain circuit courts, as to the level of Daubert scrutiny to be applied at the early class certification stage. In its recent decision in Wal-Mart Stores Inc. v. Dukes, the U.S. Supreme Court, while addressing whether plaintiffs met Rule 23(a)(2)'s "commonality" requirement, seemingly entered the fray.1 Specifically, the Court noted, in dicta, that "[t]he District Court concluded that Daubert did not apply to expert testimony at the certification stage of class-action proceedings." The Supreme Court's response: "[w]e doubt that is so...."

While far from categorical, coming from the Supreme Court, this dicta undoubtedly will, and has, been seized upon by some to argue that the Court has endorsed a requirement that a full Daubert examination at class certification is required in every case—thereby taking away the district court's discretion in formulating a casespecific class certification inquiry. For many of the reasons detailed below, including those articulated by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in its recent decision in In re Zurn Pex Plumbing Products Liability Litigation, in the words of the Supreme Court, we doubt that is so.

'Daubert'

Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals Inc. requires that courts ensure expert testimony presented at trial be both relevant and reliable. 2 This Daubert test has been applied in varying degrees at the class certification stage by district courts in determining whether proffered expert testimony can be utilized to assess whether the requisites of Rule 23 have been met.3 Prior to the Supreme Court's decision in Dukes, the appropriate scope of a court's inquiry into an expert's testimony at the class certification stage had mostly been left to the discretion of the district court to be determined on a case-by-case basis.4

Some district courts have embraced a lower, or more tailored, Daubert examination, citing the preliminary stage in the litigation and the limited discovery often taken to that point.5 Many of these courts found that a lower Daubert examination should not include any "statistical dueling of experts" at the class certification stage (i.e., that class certification was not the proper place to engage in weighing conflicting expert evidence).6

Other district courts have applied a more rigorous Daubert examination at the class certification stage, including resolving disputes between the parties' respective experts.7 In the last year, at least two circuit courts have expressly addressed the issue.

Seventh Circuit

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in American Honda Motor Company Inc. v. Allen denied plaintiffs' request for class certification after finding that a full Daubert examination was necessary under the facts of that case.8 American Honda is a products liability case that involved claims of defective motorcycles. In moving for class certification, plaintiffs sought to demonstrate the predominance of common issues by relying on an expert report prepared by a motorcycle engineer. In response, defendants moved to strike the expert report as unreliable under Daubert. Although voicing concern about the expert's methodology and its reliability, the court nonetheless denied the motion and granted class certification. Defendants appealed.

The Seventh Circuit held that "the district court must perform a full Daubert analysis before certifying the class if the situation warrants." In the Seventh Circuit's view, when an expert's report is "critical" to class certification, the district court must "conclusively rule on any challenge to the expert's qualifications or submissions prior to ruling on a class certification motion." While acknowledging the great latitude that district courts have in making independent determinations as to how to measure expert reliability and when expert testimony is in fact reliable, the Seventh Circuit criticized the district court for not providing sufficient findings that the expert report in that case was in fact reliable enough to support plaintiffs' class certification request.

Ninth Circuit: 'Dukes'

Dukes involved a gender discrimination action brought by female employees of Wal-Mart against their employer under Title VII. The plaintiffs sought and were granted class certification by the district court.9 The decision was affirmed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit sitting en banc, which held that "[a]t the class certification stage, it is enough that [the expert] presented scientifically reliable evidence tending to show that a common question of fact...exists with respect to all members of the class."10 The Ninth Circuit also noted that it was "not convinced by the dissent's argument that Daubert has exactly the same application at the class certification stage as it does to expert testimony relevant at trial."

The Supreme Court granted review, leading many to believe that the Court would take the opportunity to resolve the apparent conflict between the circuits as to what level of scrutiny experts should be subjected to at the class certification stage. It did not. Instead, the Court suggested in dicta that some level of Daubert examination is necessary at class certification.11 However, the Court made no definitive holdings in this respect and did not elaborate as to what level of Daubert examination it deemed acceptable. The Court simply expressed its doubt that the district court's conclusion that Daubert did not apply at class certification was correct. As such, this dicta, while not to be disregarded, does not preclude district courts from continuing to exercise their own discretion as to whether to apply a full or more tailored Daubert examination.

Eighth Circuit Addresses Dicta

Since the Supreme Court's Dukes decision was issued, few courts have addressed the Supreme Court's "[w]e doubt that is so" dicta, suggesting that it may not have the impact that some portend. Of those courts that have addressed it, there has been only one circuit court decision to date: In re Zurn Pex Plumbing Products Liability Litigation.12

Zurn involved a products-liability claim, where the plaintiffs sought, and were granted, class certification despite the district court applying a more focused Daubert analysis. In support of class certification, plaintiffs initially presented evidence from two experts, which defendants moved to strike. The parties disputed the proper application of Daubert. The plaintiffs argued at this stage in the litigation that the expert testimony should only be excluded if it was "so flawed it cannot provide any information as to whether the requisites of class certification have been met." The defendants asserted that the court should conduct a "full and conclusive Daubert" review before certifying the class. The Zurn district court judge took what the Eighth Circuit described as a "middle course" between the parties' positions.

The district court concluded that given the stage of the litigation, a full and conclusive Daubert inquiry would not be necessary or productive, especially since expert opinions could shift during the course of merits discovery. Instead, the district court conducted a more focused Daubert examination limited to whether the experts' opinions should be considered in deciding the issues related to class certification. Based on this examination, the court allowed plaintiffs' experts' testimony and certified the class. Defendants appealed.

The Eighth Circuit affirmed. The circuit court found that the trial judge did not abuse its discretion in not conducting a full Daubert review. In so holding, the Eighth Circuit rejected defendants' argument that the district court must determine conclusively at the early class certification stage whether the expert evidence will ultimately be admissible at trial. The Eighth Circuit cited its own precedent, and said that the fact that merits discovery had not even commenced resulted in a very limited record that made a "full and conclusive" Daubert inquiry impossible at that time.

Instead, the Eighth Circuit held that all that is required at the certification stage is that the court scrutinize the expert testimony "in light of the criteria for class certification and the current state of the evidence." The majority for the circuit court makes only passing reference to the Supreme Court's Dukes dicta in one of its footnotes, merely noting that its endorsement of a "focused" Daubert inquiry did not diverge from the Supreme Court's suggestion in Dukes that there should be some Daubert examination.

The Eighth Circuit's opinion is notable in several respects. Initially, coming on the heels of the Supreme Court's Dukes decision, it suggests that absent a definitive ruling by the Supreme Court on this issue, circuit courts will not mandate a full Daubert analysis in every case at class certification; but, they will continue to allow district courts the discretion to determine on a case-by-case basis what level of Daubert scrutiny to apply. This is consistent with Daubert, which gives district courts considerable discretion in deciding in a particular case how to go about determining whether expert testimony is reliable. It is also consistent with Fed. R. Civ. P. 23, which allows district courts wide discretion to determine the scope of a class certification hearing. In addition, the Zurn decision easily concludes that the Supreme Court's Dukes dicta does not mandate a full Daubert examination in every case, but instead suggests only that Daubert applies in some way at the certification stage of class-action proceedings. Accordingly, the Zurn opinion suggests that this dicta will not have a meaningful impact on the admissibility of expert testimony at class certification.

Conclusion

In the Dukes dicta language itself, and the Zurn opinion above, what is clear is that the Supreme Court's dicta does not dictate any particular level of Daubert inquiry. Instead, it merely suggests that Daubert applies to expert testimony at the class certification stage and leaves it up to the lower court's discretion to apply Daubert on a case-by-case basis. This is nothing new and is unlikely to have a meaningful impact on class certification proceedings.

1. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. v. Dukes, 131 S.Ct. 2541 (June 20, 2011).

2. 509 U.S. 579, 597 (1993).

3. See In re Visa Check/Mastermoney Antitrust Litig., 192 F.R.D. 68, 77 (E.D.N.Y. 2000), aff'd, 280 F.3d 124 (2d. Cir. 2001).

4. See, generally, Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 603 F.3d 571, 594 (9th Cir. 2010), cert. granted in part, 131 S. Ct. 795 (U.S. 2010) and rev'd, 131 S. Ct. 2541 (2011).

5 See, e.g., In re Static Random Access Memory Antitrust Litig., 264 F.R.D. 603, 616 (N.D. Cal. 2009); Turner v. Murphy Oil USA Inc., No. 05-4206, 2006 WL 91364, at *2 (E.D. La. Jan. 12, 2006); Ancar v. Murphy Oil, U.S.A. Inc., Civ. A. No.: 06-3246 C/W, 2007 WL 3270763, at *1-2 (E.D. La. Nov. 2, 2007).

6. See, .e.g., Ancar v. Murphy Oil, U.S.A. Inc., Civ. A. No.: 06-3246 C/W, 2007 WL 3270763, at *1-2 (E.D. La. Nov. 2, 2007).

7. See, e.g., In re Scientific-Atlanta Inc. Sec. Litig., No. 1:01-CV-1950-RWS, 2007 WL 2683729, at *17-19 (N.D. Ga. Sept. 7, 2007).

8. 600 F.3d 813, 814-16 (7th Cir. 2010).

9. See Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 222 F.R.D. 137 (N.D. Cal. 2004).

10. See Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 603 F.3d 571, 602 (9th Cir. 2010) (en banc), rev'd on other grounds, 564 U.S.__, 131 S.Ct. 2541, __L.Ed.2d__ (2011).

11. See Dukes, 131 S.Ct. at 2554.

12. 644 F.3d 604, 612 (8th Cir. 2011).

JONATHAN GARDNER is a partner at Labaton Sucharow. SERENA HALLOWELL is an associate at the firm.      

Document NYLJ000020111202e7bp0000c

News; Domestic
Shoppers Pounce on Black Friday Deals; GOP Candidates Back on the Trail; "Last Chance" Protests in Cairo; "Last Chance" Protests in Cairo; Looking for Life on Mars; Shopping Apps Save Time, Money; Season of Part-Time Work; Family Planning vs. Family Finances

Hala Gorani, Chris Knowles, George Howell, Paul Steinhauser, Ivan Watson, John Zarrella, Alison Kosik, Karin Caifa, Dan Lothian, Jeff Fischel, Christine Romans      
7,972 words
25 November 2011
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
English
©2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. All rights reserved. Prepared by CQ Transcriptions, LLC.      

HALA GORANI, CNN ANCHOR: Hi, Alina and Carol.

Happy black Friday. Nearly one in four Americans -- one in four Americans says that he or she plans to shop on this busy shopping day and the crowds are coming out. At times, however, things do get a little bit out of hand like at this Wal-Mart near Los Angeles. Authorities say a woman waiting in line pepper-sprayed other customers, apparently, so she could get a better place in line.

About 10 people were hurt when the crowd scattered. No serious injuries were reported. The woman paid for her items and ran out of the store and detectives are hoping that a security camera will help identify her.

And there was another wild morning at a Wal-Mart near Orlando and police say two men started fighting at the jewelry counter. One of them allegedly resisted arrest and officers ended up wrestling him to the ground.

OK, hopefully these are just exceptions and it's an important day in the United States, as well as far as the economy is concerned. So much of this economy relies on consumer spending.

We're talking, of course, about Black Friday with CNN's Chris Knowles in New York, with George Howell in Atlanta.

Let's start with Chris. He's at Macy's in Manhattan.

And how are things looking now? It's 9:00 a.m. Are the crowds out?

CHRIS KNOWLES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You know what, Hala, good morning to you from New York. The world's largest Macy's. You know here the shoppers came out hours and hours ago. Typically it's a busy time on a Black Friday but this time retailers tried something new.

They opened up early. Some as early as 9:00 last night here in New York City and other cities across America. This scene here at Macy's, huge crowds lining up around the block for those good deals. For the very first time ever, they opened up at midnight. Four hours earlier than they've ever done in the past. And we spoke with the CEO of Macy's just a few moments ago.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TERRY LUNDGREN, PRESIDENT AND CEO, MACY'S: We tested 12 stores at the request of those stores last year and it's a big success right from the gun at midnight. So it was clearly a big success here at Herald's Square with over 10,000 people standing outside waiting to get in.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KNOWLES: This is going to be a huge test for retailers this holiday season. The retail association of this country expecting 152 million shoppers. That's the estimate on Black Friday and, of course, coming up on Monday, we have Cyber Monday where you go to the Internet to find some of these same deals -- Hala.

GORANI: OK. Thanks very much.

Now Black Friday might be a misnomer these days. Some stores actually open on Thanksgiving Day. Not everyone loved that idea, by the way.

CNN's George Howell is covering that for us in Atlanta.

Now we have some stores, George, open at 9:00 p.m. You have the midnight open, but that's been going on for a while. But then others are saying, look, if you open in the evening of Thanksgiving, you're basically opening on Thanksgiving.

GEORGE HOWELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Hala, here in the news business and I'm sure you can attest to this, I don't know the last time I didn't work a holiday. It's just kind of what you do in this business and you're finding many retailers.

Retail employees now doing the same. Many of the employees who work at this Best Buy started at 10:00 p.m. last night, Thanksgiving Day. They will get off here in the next couple of hours around 11:00. So 12-hour work day, a long day many of them clearly happy to be part of the Black Friday -- frenzy rather.

But some of them, at least one employee that started a petition in Tampa has a problem with it. Take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

RICK MELARAGNI, BEST BUY EMPLOYEE: I understand that there's money to be made and we need to make that money, but families should always come above any form of money.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HOWELL: Now that petition has gotten at least 14,000 signatures. And another petition started by Anthony Hardwick, a Target employees in Omaha, Nebraska, got some 200,000 signatures. So some people definitely agree with this. Both companies, both Target and Best Buy, responded by saying this is what their customers wanted. They wanted these stores to open early so that they could get these good deals.

And both employees, they also add that while they certainly disagree with the policy, they are happy that they can at least share their opinions with no problems -- Hala.

GORANI: Well, so, the question is, is this going to work for retailers? They need the sales. This economy needs consumer spending. Are they finding that this is working for them in terms of increasing customer turnout?

HOWELL: Well, according to the National Retail Federation, this is the busiest shopping day of the year. So many of these stores trying to capitalize on that to open early and the way it's described, it's a competitive environment. The earlier you open, the better chance you will have customers buying your items.

So, clearly, that's what Best Buy is doing and so far it seems a lot of customers are getting some good deals -- Hala.

GORANI: OK. Thanks very much, George. And thanks to our team there on the ground reporting on Black Friday.

A very important day for retailers and we'll continue to follow developments and see whether or not these 150 million plus customers actually show up with Thanksgiving over, the White House candidates are heading back on the campaign trail.

Our deputy political director Paul Steinhauser joins us with a look at the state of the race.

Hi there, Paul.

PAUL STEINHAUSER, CNN DEPUTY POLITICAL DIRECTOR: Hey, good morning, Hala. And you're right, the holiday is over and it's back to business for these candidates. A bunch of them on the campaign trail today, including Newt Gingrich. He'll be down on the campaign trail in Florida.

Remember we are now just five and a half weeks away. That is it. From the first votes. And that will be in Iowa. The Iowa caucuses on January 3rd. They kick off the primary and caucus calendar.

But where does the race stand right now with just five and a half weeks left? Take a look at this. This is our most recent CNN/ORC national poll. These are Republicans nationwide and who's their -- preference for the nominee. You can see now Newt Gingrich. That was the first time Newt Gingrich on top, the former House speaker, in our CNN polling. Mitt Romney in second place, the former Massachusetts governor, but that four-point margin for Gingrich basically all tied up when you take into effect -- account the sampling error.

Herman Cain the businessman at 17 percent. He seen his numbers fade a little bit over the last few weeks. He surged earlier this fall and those allegations of sexual harassment from when he was the head of the National Restaurant Association in the 1990s. Rick Perry, the Texas governor, remember he was the frontrunner at one time back in September at 11 percent. Everybody else in single digits.

What about Iowa? Of course, Iowa the very important, the first state. Take a look at this. This is a poll by American Research Group. This came out just a couple days ago, as well. There's Newt Gingrich in Iowa. Number one as well. Romney second, and you can see right there, Ron Paul, the congressman from Texas, at 16 percent in third place.

Remember, both these polls, Hala, conducted before our debate on Tuesday night. So maybe that debate had an impact. A lot of these debates have had impacts on the polls and it's one of the reasons Newt Gingrich has surged -- Hala.

GORANI: Right. And let's talk about Gingrich. He made some comments on amnesty for some illegal immigrants, I mean that could have an impact on his popularity that has surged over the last few polls, I should say. So is that something we need to look out for?

STEINHAUSER: It could be. It could be a concern for Newt Gingrich, no doubt about it. Listen, if you're running in the general election what he said, and he did call for some kind of amnesty for some long-time illegal immigrants, that's actually kind of like -- I guess some would say a compassionate take or stance and that could help in the general election.

But when you're running for the Republican primaries among hard- core conservatives, it is -- it's basically amnesty is considered a four-letter word especially in a rural states like Iowa and South Carolina. So it could be troublesome for him.

In fact a very influential congressman in Iowa just on Wednesday said that after hearing those comments from Newt Gingrich, he would be maybe less inclined to support Gingrich in Iowa. So listen, five and a half weeks left. We've seen these candidates go up and down. Will Gingrich down -- go down after going up? Stay tuned. This race changes by day -- Hala.

GORANI: Right. And the point you're making is this one thing to appeal to national voters and another one entirely to appeal to primary voters. And we still have a year left.

STEINHAUSER: We do. That's --

GORANI: Until the presidential election. But several months until a nominee is determined.

STEINHAUSER: Exactly.

All right, Paul --

STEINHAUSER: Exactly.

Yes, go ahead. No, no, you're right, it is a long road. A long road to the White House once we get through the -- through the primaries and caucuses, you're right, we have to go all the way until next November for the general election. So this ride is far from over.

GORANI: Paul Steinhauser, thanks very much. See you a bit later. We'll have your next political update in one hour. And a reminder for all the latest political news, go to our Website, CNNPolitics.com.

Coming up, tens of thousands of protesters have flooded Cairo's Tahrir Square. They call it their last chance rally. We'll go there live.

Plus NASA gets ready to launch its biggest Mars mission ever. More on the super ball of space exploration next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

GORANI: A sea of people in the heart of Cairo today, once again, for what protesters call their last chance rally. These are live images from Tahrir Square. The beating heart of the opposition movement in Egypt. It comes a day after the military leaders in that country named a new prime minister. A man who has already held that post under Hosni Mubarak, the deposed dictator.

Ivan Watson joins us now on the line from Cairo. So what is the mood there of demonstrators in Tahrir and in an adjacent street after the appointment of this new prime minister, is is appeasing them at all?

IVAN WATSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: I don't think so. I mean, this is a symbol, a demonstration of defiance against the system and a kind of popular people power pressure to push forward reforms in the country that I think many of the people, but tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, have gathered there. They argue that it hasn't been fast enough since the former president was pushed out of power.

The very important to point out that the newly appointed Prime Minister Kamal Ganzuri just gave a press conference. He just addressed the nation and he insisted in his comments on Egyptian television that the ruling military council that has been the focus point of so much rage on the part of the Tahrir Square protesters that the military council will afford him enough power to serve as a real prime minister.

He almost seemed a little bit on the defensive because the former civilian government, which resigned en mass just a couple of days ago amid the loss of life in the clashes between the demonstrators and the security forces, it was widely seen as a puppet government that was basically dominated by the generals, the army generals who have been governing this country for the past nine months.

This new prime minister insisting that amendments will be made and that he will be able to govern the country in the coming transitional period -- Hala.

GORANI: So the question is, I mean -- are protesters trusting him? Here's a man, he's 78 years old. He was a prime minister under Hosni Mubarak, the dictatorial leader that these protesters overthrew. And there he is now heading the new government.

WATSON: That's right. And, so, a lot of criticism has already been heaped on him from some of the people in Tahrir Square saying he is yet another symbol of the former regime that they're battling against that he is not in touch with the youth that have been so instrumental in driving this protest movement.

However, it is important to note, Hala, that Tahrir Square is not all of Egypt. This is a country of 70 million people. And simultaneously, there is a rival protest under way in another part of Cairo where tens of thousands of people have gathered in support of the Egyptian military. In support of Marshal Mohammed Tantawi, the much reviled general who leads the military council.

So, you have a battle of people power here, of people trying to show their support for different institutions here. And, fortunately, thus far, the day has gone peacefully.

That is a positive thing I can report the two sides have not gotten involved in any types of clashes that we have heard about thus far.

GORANI: OK. Ivan Watson live there in Tahrir Square.

And, of course, a reminder to our viewers that three days from now is when important elections are going to take place and everybody will be looking for potential violence there.

And speaking of violence, while observing events in Tahrir Square, Egyptian American blogger Mona Eltahawy said she was arrested and abused by police. She talked about her ordeal on CNN's AMERICAN MORNING.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MONA ELTAHAWY, JOURNALIST: I was standing on the front line where protesters have had this confrontation with the security forces. And, all of a sudden, some riot police crossed over to our side and some of the people standing around me managed to get away. But I was cornered by four or five riot police and they beat me with their sticks and that's how I got the break on my left arm and my right hand. And then they dragged me beyond what was basically this confront line into this no man's land, all the way to the interior ministry, which was close by.

And as they were taking me there, I experienced a terrible sexual assault. I mean, it was basically just hands everywhere, groping my breasts, hands between my legs. I lost count of the number of hands that tried to get into my trousers that I was trying to push off.

They were calling me all kind of terrible names. I fell to the ground at one point and dragging me by my hair.

But I want to emphasize what happened to me is not just unique to me. This is the kind of brutality that was one of the main catalysts for the Egyptian revolution. As an Egyptian, I came back to Tahrir Square because I wanted to be here with fellow Egyptians to basically say this revolution will continue and will not be hijacked by the supreme council of the armed forces. And it will not be hijacked by this brutal security forces who beaten me and beat so many other Egyptians.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GORANI: Mona Eltahawy and, by the way, a French reporter was sexually assaulted in Tahrir Square. Now, according to the head of the military's moral department, Eltahawy was detained because she didn't have an Egyptian press pass. His quote, "What did she expect? She could be a spy for all we know. But when she told me she was sexually assaulted, I encouraged her to take the appropriate legal action."

A $39 billion dollar deal in the telecom industry hits a major roadblock. Why regulators may disconnect a tie up between AT&T and T- Mobile. We'll go to New York Stock Exchange next.

Plus, NASA gets ready to launch its biggest Mars mission ever. More on the, quote, "super bowl" of space exploration.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

GORANI: It's a big week for NASA. The space agency is celebrating half a billion dollars in new founding for its Hubble 2.0 telescope and tomorrow lifts off on its 19th attempted mission to Mars.

John Zarrella reports.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

JOHN ZARRELLA, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Mars. Does life exist there? Did it ever?

NASA is poised to take its boldest step towards answering questions that could change forever our view of humanity's place in the universe.

ASHWIN VASAVADA, DEPUTY PROJECT MANAGER: I think the best way of saying why we're so excited about this mission is that it sets us up for the mission of finally answering that, you know, really age-old question of does life exist on other planets?

ZARRELLA: The mission is called the Mars Science Laboratory or MSL, the most sophisticated vehicle ever sent to Mars, it has the ability to detect signs of life. If it works, come next August, after traveling 350 million miles, a 2,000-pound, six-wheel rover called Curiosity will arrive at the red planet.

Using a tether system never tried before, it will be lowered down to a place called the Gale Crater. The size of a small car, Curiosity is the Cadillac of rovers.

JESSICA SAMUELS, SURFACE SYSTEMS ENGINEER: We're choosing to make the rovers bigger and bigger because we want to cover more ground. We want to be able to put an arm out and drill a rock.

ZARRELLA: Drill a rock? Why?

ROB MANNING, MSL CHIEF ENGINEER: On Mars, if life exists as single cell organisms or it ever existed, we believe it will be under the ground or inside rocks.

ZARRELLA: Inside Gale Crater sits inside what scientists believe is a layered mountain. In essence, the history of Mars told in the layers. And if water ever flowed on Mars, it might have been in that crater. Curiosity's arm will collect samples and place them in its onboard laboratory with the ability to detect organic material.

VASAVADA: Now, if we discover organic materials on mars, then it gets very exciting. You know, the chances of it may be low, but the payoff is huge. Organic materials are required for life as we know it.

ZARRELLA: But it won't mean life exists, just the building blocks.

MANNING: If you go to the driest desert on earth, can you find life on your samples if you do a robotic study? Probably not. It's actually quite difficult. Life has to stick up and make itself seen.

ZARRELLA: Finding life itself would be next to the next wave of explorers, robotic and perhaps even human.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

GORANI: And John Zarrella joins me live. Now, John, of course, NASA had actually hoped to launch this Mars science lab two years ago. At the time, there were technical issues.

So, the question is: are they confident this time around?

ZARRELLA: Yes, they really are. They say the extra two years that they ended up having to take really gave them an opportunity to work out the issues they had. Of course, they're way over budget, about $900 million over budget on this rover project. But for the engineering team at the jet propulsion laboratory in California which built the Curiosity rover, this is a big, big deal, Hala, because this is the last of the planetary missions on tap for NASA. There are no more.

And they really hope that they will be able to find at least evidence on Mars of past life. Before we go, you know, you see that behind me there, we're in the vehicle assembly building in NASA.

With the shuttle not flying any more, that's Endeavour there being readied for its trip to California, at the museum that is going to take delivery of it in about a year and a half.

GORANI: That's fascinating, you're right there in front of it.

Now, let's talk about tomorrow's launch.

ZARRELLA: Sure.

GORANI: What's the forecast like for that? Are we expecting it to be a smooth one?

ZARRELLA: Weather looks pretty good. Yes, weather looks pretty good. Right now, it's a little bit windy out there. They've been saying about a 70 percent chance of good weather. Little bit of overcast clouds moving by, but, chances of launch look very, very good from about 10:00 am. -- 10:02 a.m. Eastern Time, and the launch window actually extends out over an hour and a half. So, they'll have plenty of opportunities to get off the ground tomorrow.

GORANI: All right, thanks very much -- John Zarrella reporting live there on that anticipated launch tomorrow.

ZARRELLA: Sure.

GORANI: We'll talk to you a bit later.

ZARRELLA: Now, a bid to create the world's biggest mobile phone carrier may get derailed. We're talking about the $39 billion tie up between AT&T and T-Mobile.

Alison Kosik at the New York Stock Exchange.

All right. I'm sure trading volume is light, but before we talk about that, the deal. Is it going to follow through?

ALISON KOSIK, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: Yes. And that is really the question then, Hala. You know what? The signal is really not so strong on this one going through. In fact, AT&T is actually setting aside money just in case. It's setting aside a $4 billion breakup fee because companies have to pay some penalty if the deal that they agree on winds up falling through.

Now, AT&T is preparing this because of what happened on Monday. That's when the FCC recommended that the deal go to an administrative hearing and this is very rare. The last time it happened was back in 2002 for a different deal and that deal eventually fell through.

Now, this one, the AT&T/T-Mobile deal, it comes with a lot of controversy. In fact, the government filed a suit to block it back in February, saying it's going to lead to higher prices for consumers and fewer jobs. But this is getting pretty expensive for AT&T.

In addition to that, $4 billion break-up fee I just told you about, it's going to have to pay, if this thing falls through, a $3 billion termination fee to Deutsche Telekom, that's T-Mobile's owner and it will then lose billions dollars more in wireless spectrum allotment. So, this one is to be continued -- Hala.

GORANI: All right. We'll keep an eye on that.

Now, what about trading today? It's the day after Thanksgiving. So, obviously, we're not expecting a very high trading volume figure. But what's the expectation in terms of the direction of the stock index?

KOSIK: Hala, it's more of the same of what we have been seeing, a weak open. Dow futures now pointing lower, about 70 points. You know what? Today, especially on all the day, not much to trade on, no economic reports or major corporate news. But the headlines are moving, again. Yesterday, for Thanksgiving Day, we found out that Portugal's credit rating was downgraded to junk. So, what you have here for investors are the same worries about Europe carrying through.

Opening bell ringing in about three minutes -- Hala.

GORANI: OK. We'll check in with you a little bit later. Alison Kosik is at the New York Stock Exchange.

Want to be a savvy holiday shopper? Well, guess what, there's an app for that. In fact, your mobile phone, if you use it correctly, can save you time, obviously, but also money. We'll explain what we mean after the break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

GORANI: Welcome back.

Checking top stories now:

Congresswoman Gabby Giffords met with some of her constituents for the first time since being wounded in a shooting in January. Giffords and husband Mark Kelly helped serve a meal to military families.

Also among the stories we're following, "Harry Potter" author J.K. Rowling said she was so hounded by paparazzi at one time, she felt like a hostage in her own home. Rowling testified before a committee investigating Britain's phone hacking scandal.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

J.K. ROWLING, AUTHOR: This doesn't apply to the whole of the press, but the attitude seems to be utterly cavalier, indifference, what does it matter, you're famous, you're asking for it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GORANI: Rowling says she was outraged after a journalist slipped a note into her 5-year-old daughter's school bag.

And shoppers got an earlier-than-ever Black Friday start with some stores opening late at night. Fifteen people suffered minor injuries at a California Wal-Mart when one customer used pepper spray, apparently, to move others out of the line.

And mobile phones have become quite handy for today's holiday shoppers from searching for deals to comparison shopping. There are new apps that can help you save time and money.

Karin Caifa shows us just how helpful our phones can be.

I've got to confess, Karin, I don't phone-shop, you know? But if there was an option to do it easily and quickly, I guess that's very tempting, right?

KARIN CAIFA, CNN NEWSOURCE: There's a lot more of those apps out there this year, more than ever, Hala. The smartphone is the holiday shopper's best accessory. You can do everything from tracking down those elusive items, even saving yourself a little bit of Christmas cash.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

CAIFA (voice-over): 'Tis the season to be mobile.

FIONA DIAS, RETAIL & E-COMMERCE EXPERT: This is undoubtedly the year of mobile devices.

CAIFA: Holiday shoppers can have the best of both worlds, using that smartphone while looking at merchandise in the store.

DIAS: You can touch it, you can feel it, you can see it, but then they're going to price check on their mobile phones or their mobile tablets.

CAIFA: The Google shopper app for iPhone and Android is just one way to make sure you're getting the most bang for your buck.

JULIE KRUEGER, GOOGLE RETAIL INDUSTRY DIRECTOR: You can go on and find out product information, reviews of the product from other consumers who have purchased it. Do price comparisons with online retailers, as well as brick and mortar retailers.

CAIFA: Location-based apps like Foursquare are a favorite for limited time offers. And a simple search for nearby deals may yield more than you expect.

KRUEGER: Looking for deals and coupons that are available online is a huge way that people use search and use their mobile devices.

CAIFA: The tablet boom has given rise to another trend: couch commerce. Easy to tote around than a laptop, consumers can take that tablet to bed so the shop never stops.

Shop Runner brings together dozens of retailers and offers free two-day shipping for a membership fee and keep track of online purchases with an app like Slice for iPhone. It scans your inbox for confirmation emails, looks for things like shipping information, and tracks packages and electronic receipts.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

CAIFA: We keep citing that number, 152 million Americans expected to shop Black Friday and through the weekend -- well, that means a lot of fighting for parking spots. So, check and see if your city or even your local mall has a parking spot app. Those are out there to help make it just a little bit easier, Hala.

GORANI: All right. Karin Caifa, you're braving the crowds. I don't know if you're going to get some shopping in at the Pentagon City Mall in Arlington there. But, good luck to you and we'll check in with you later.

Well, it's beginning to look a lot like Christmas at the White House. The official White House Christmas tree will be presented to First Lady Michelle Obama in about an hour and a half.

CNN's Dan Lothian will have a bird's eye view. Tell us about this beautiful tree.

DAN LOTHIAN, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Hala.

Well, as you know, if a tree is headed here to the White House, it has to be fully vetted for beauty and all the other characteristics that make it the perfect tree for the White House. This one comes all the way from Wisconsin. It is a 19-foot tall balsam fir. It was selected in early October, and it was harvested just last week.

Now, in order for a tree to get here, it has to go through a long process. First of all, there's a competition. There's a state and regional competition and there are different panels made up of tree growers, retailers, other experts. Then, a White House team will formally make the selection.

This time, the selection, the honors go to Sue and Tom Schroeder of their farm there in Wisconsin. This tree, by the way, was planted 18 years ago and now made the journey here to Washington where it will be sort of the centerpiece of the holiday season, as all of that gets under way starting today, Hala.

GORANI: All right. So, for all those people perhaps in Washington, D.C., on holiday, do the White House tours include the tree?

LOTHIAN: Of course. I mean, this is a tree that everyone really wants to see when they come here to Washington and they get a chance to tour the White House. As you know, during the holiday season, there are a lot of different holiday receptions here at the White House. There are tours that do take place.

This tree will be in the White House blue room. And, so, anyone who's coming through here, thousands of people who will come through here during the holiday season will get a chance to see this beautiful tree.

GORANI: Thanks, Dan Lothian at the White House.

Prince Harry turned tourist this week. America's royal visitor stepped away from helicopter training for a different kind of thrill ride. The details are next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

GORANI: All right. Let's get you your "Showbiz Headlines."

Efforts to bring ABC daytime dramas to the internet has hit a snag. Prospect Park is company licensed to continue production of "All My Children" and "One Life to Live" on the web. But according to the Hollywood report, those efforts have been suspended because negotiating parties cannot reach a deal.

And Prince Harry takes a break from helicopter training in Arizona for a different kind of thrill ride in California. "U.S. Weekly" is reporting the 27-year-old royal visited Universal Studios on Wednesday and the magazine says Harry's highlights included a behind the scenes studio tours and a trek through the King Kong 360 3D and the "War of the Worlds" exhibits.

And teen sensation Justin Bieber may have visited all seven continents, but he couldn't seem to name them all on the "Late Show" with David letterman.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID LETTERMAN, HOST, "LATE NIGHT WITH DAVID LETTERMAN": Where have you been? Run off the countries.

JUSTIN BIEBER, SINGER: I think I've been to every continent.

LETTERMAN: How many continents are there?

BIEBER: Asia, North America, South America, Africa, Antarctica and the North Pole. No.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GORANI: Actually, I'm kind of impressed that he got Antarctica. Now, he named six of the seven. He just forgot Europe, which seemed like a slip more than anything else. Letterman gave him a hint to help him with the final answer. I thought that was pretty good.

A severe drought dries up a Texas lake. Underneath, a tiny town is revealed, and that's not all archeologists found lurking 20 feet under water. That story is next.

Also, it's the holiday hiring surge. Retailers are expected to have brought on an extra 500,000 workers this holiday season. It does sound great. But are they leading to full-time work or are we becoming a part-time economy?

That and more on CNN.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

GORANI: Once again, checking news across the country:

In Texas, the drought there is drying up lakes and underneath one lake is an old town called Bluffton. Also discovered, never before seen artifacts and ruins, as well, including a cemetery that dates back to the 1930s.

In Missouri, a pet wallaby decided to take a stroll around town. It took off while being fed. It got caught and taken to the Kansas City zoo

In Everett, Washington, parents of a four-year-old say their daughter was forced to scribble her signature on a form banning her from a store for shoplifting. A Safeway security guard informed the girl and her father that the store would be pressing charges after he watched the small girl open a bag of fruit and eat some and put it back on the shelf. Safeway says it's investigating the incident.

Now, the holiday shopping season is officially under way, you don't need me to tell you that. It is Black Friday. It means more hiring, as well. This is good for the economy. But in most cases, we're talking about part-time jobs.

Alison Kosik is at the New York Stock Exchange. Now, it's good to see people working but the fact that these positions are part-time says what about the state of the economy.

KOSIK: Right. Exactly. So during a slow recovery like we're having here in the U.S. it's expected you're going to see a lot of part-time positions. But the concern that many economists have, Hala, is that it could wind up being a fundamental change in the job market.

Now the National Week Help Federation says that retailers are hiring half a million people of workers this year. And that's normal considering the influx of holiday shoppers coming in and buying things. But -- but the thing with the situation now is that we're seeing this all year long.

You look at the jobs report, the most recent jobs report; it shows that almost nine million Americans are working part-time because they have to. They can't find full-time work and the bigger fear here is that companies they may be learning to do more with less.

Now they may wind up hiring a part-time worker who does enough to get by or the company would just bring on two part-time workers to avoid paying benefits and hiring that one full-time worker. So you see how companies are getting around this and that fear of this kind of structural change in the job market itself -- Hala.

GORANI: And this economy is going to have to start adding jobs at a higher pace if a rebound, a significant rebound in the economy is to take place. So the question is, these part-time jobs for these hundreds of thousands of Americans, will they lead to full-time positions?

KOSIK: And you make a good point because, sure, many -- many of these part-time positions do wind up leading into a full-time position and, you know what, a part-time job in the end is better than having no job at all and it gives employers a lot of flexibility.

Let's say who -- at department stores and at call centers where there are long hours so they can cut and boost hours and they don't have to necessarily lay people off, as much. It's also cheaper for employers because they don't have to pay benefits.

But the thing is, many part-time jobs don't lead to full-time jobs and that hurts the economy. And for workers, that leads to more instability because their hours and the size of their pay checks wind up fluctuating a lot. And you know what; in the end it hurt employers too because part-time workers wind up leaving quickly for other jobs.

And then it costs a lot to train these people, as well. So, sure, it's good to have work, but the reality is, you know what we really don't want to become a part-time economy.

GORANI: Absolutely. Alison Kosik, thanks very much.

Having a baby is a big decision and it's also a big expense. Now more and more couples are putting another child on hold because they're worried about making ends meet. We'll hear one of those families explain their decision to wait.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

GORANI: Checking stories making headlines later today.

At 11:00 Eastern this morning, First Lady Michelle Obama will receive the official White House Christmas tree.

Keeping in the holiday spirit, at 5:00 Eastern National Harbor, Maryland, kicks off the spectacular Harbor Light festival complete with tree lighting, fireworks and live performances.

Also, at 5:00, protesters promise to "Occupy Black Friday" by holding a series of protests across the country.

We're following many developments in the next hour on the CNN NEWSROOM. Let's check in first with Chris Knowles.

CHRIS KNOWLES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Here at Macy's flagship store, the largest Macy's in the world, crowds still lining up for Black Friday specials but wait until you see what it looked like at midnight. We'll have that at the top of the hour.

GEORGE HOWELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: I'm George Howell hanging out with customers at what is a great day to get some good deals but thousands of people have signed on to a petition against big stores like this opening for Black Friday. I'll have a live report for you coming up at the top of the hour.

DAN LOTHIAN, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: I'm Dan Lothian at the White House where the administration watching the situation on the ground in Egypt is pushing for democratic reforms in that country. I'll have more on that story at the top of the hour.

GORANI: All right. We'll also go live to Egypt. Thanks, Dan, and to all of you.

Small business owners have a message for holiday shoppers. Don't just hit the big box stores. Tomorrow is Small Business Saturday. We'll talk about that next hour.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

GORANI: Welcome back.

For this first time ever in the NFL, two brothers faced off as head coaches. Jeff Fischel is here with that and other sports headlines. Hi, Jeff.

JEFF FISCHEL, HLN SPORTS: And it was perfect timing; Thanksgiving, right. It's all about family. Well, we saw it last night; John Harbaugh's Ravens versus Jim Harbaugh's 49ers. Before the game, they were with mom and dad. That's a special Thanksgiving for the family. By the way, mom and dad celebrate their 50th wedding anniversary today.

Fourth quarter, tied at 6. The Ravens Joe Flacco to Dennis Pitt for the touchdown. John does beat Jim in the Harbaugh Bowl, 16- 6. The Ravens win. They move in to first in the AFC North. Jim's 9ers lead the NSC West and after the game the two did meet at midfield for a big brotherly hug.

The Packers trying to stay perfect and 11-0 for the first time in franchise history, taking on the lions. Aaron Rodgers, I think you can start etching his name on the MVP trophy right , another big day. Two touchdowns including this one to James Jones.

Now watch Lion's defensive start Ndamukong Suh; steps on Green Bay lineman Evan Dietrich Smith. Suh was ejected. Life isn't easy for a boy named Suh. The packers win 27-15 and they're 11-0.

Dallas quarterback Tony Romo finds Robinson not once but twice against the Dolphins. But Miami comes back. Matt Moore going for his fourth straight win since coming off the bench, deep to Brandon Marshall -- Marshall, Marshall, Marshall . The nice catch even though he's totally being -- there's a PI on the play but he makes the great catch. Last play of the game, the field goal by the Cowboys rookie kicker Dan Bailey; wins it for the cowboys 20-19. They're in first in the NFC East.

And check out finally the end of a horrible losing streak. American Samoa has finally won an international match. They had never since they started playing international play in 1994.

GORANI: Who did they beat? Who did they beat.

FISCHEL: They beat Tonga this week, 2-1.

GORANI: Oh, wow.

FISCHEL: And you know what; they followed it up today with a tie against the Cook Islands, a huge turn-up for a team. They once lost 31-0.

GORANI: What?

FISCHEL: Yes. That's how bad it was to start.

GORANI: In soccer?

FISCHEL: Yes, yes. That's how bad it was to start. But the turnaround is huge. They've now won. They were number 204 in the world.

GORANI: 31, that means the goalkeeper took in 31 goals in one day.

FISCHEL: Yes.

GORANI: You have to almost work at that, right?

FISCHEL: They were 204th in the world in the rankings. That was tied for dead last. I think they'll move up a little bit.

GORANI: Well, listen, I looked up American Samoa. 67,242 people live there.

FISCHEL: Not a big population.

GORANI: So it's a small population. Well done. I like that they kept at it until they registered that first win. Reminds me when Germany beat Saudi Arabia 8-0 in the World Cup, I think two World Cups ago. You do feel bad, though. You know? For the team on the other end of that.

OK. Thanks very much, Jeff. We'll see you a bit later.

FISCHEL: OK, Hala. All right.

GORANI: There's a new debate at the dinner table: family planning versus family finances. More and more couples now take money into account when deciding whether to expand their family. Christine Romans introduces us to one couple having this very conversation.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Want to go get some toys?

CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: Laurie and Ryan Parthemore want to have another baby.

LAURIE PARTHEMORE, DELAYING HAVING ANOTHER BABY: Once you get married, everybody is like oh, when are you having a baby? When are you having another baby? But it's not always that easy.

ROMANS: But the economy stands in their way.

RYAN PARTHEMORE, DELAYING HAVING ANOTHER BABY: Two would scare the heck out of me. I mean because to have child care costs times two, that's another big chunk of change.

L. PARTHEMORE: Hi.

ROMANS: The couple spends $11,000 on child care for Olivia. She's 1 1/2 years old.

Ryan, a detective, gets extra income working in the family's business but Laurie's job is a major factor in the family planning.

L. PARTHEMORE: Did you get the letter from us over the summertime about the funding cuts?

ROMANS: 14 out of 21 people have been laid off at the child care association where she works. Laurie isn't sure if she'll have a job come January.

L. PARTHEMORE: I'm 39 now and so there's a window and so that window closing while the job window closes at the same time or potentially will close, it's a little unnerving.

Can you burp the baby?

ROMANS: No question, women are already waiting longer to have kids and they're having fewer of them. In 2010, 4 million babies were born in the U.S. down from the peak of 4.3 million in 2007.

Dr. Jacque Moritz has delivered about 3,000 babies.

You are going to cost $250,000 by the time you're 18.

DR. JACQUES MORITZ, ST. LUKE'S-ROOSEVELT HOSPITAL CENTER: That's true.

ROMANS: $226,920 to be exact, according to the government; that's up more than $60,000 from ten years ago.

MORITZ: Well, there's no doubt that economy matters in having children. It has mattered throughout history. In the Depression it went down. In other recessions it went down and in boom times it goes up.

ROMANS: The recession is technically over but for most people doesn't feel like it.

MORITZ: Couples are telling me that the economy is tight. Having a kid, it is a great expense. I think a bigger expense up in your head than in reality but still, you know, people think about kids and college and education and all of the costs involved. They're right. So they're seeing the moment right now. How could we ever do this? They're postponing it.

ROMANS: Moritz says women think they can't afford to have a baby but for many, they can't afford to wait.

MORITZ: Biological clock.

ROMANS: You can't wait for the economy to recover.

MORITZ: Right. The stock is up, the stock is down --

ROMANS: Doesn't matter.

MORITZ: -- but the stock in the eggs is always going down.

ROMANS: yes.

MORITZ: Basically every year we get older.

ROMANS: Can you say thank you?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you.

ROMANS: You're welcome.

For now the Parthemores remain a family of three.

Content and programming copyright 2011 Cable News Network LP, LLLP.    ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.    This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.      

Document NWSRM00020111125e7bp00001



Supreme Court's Landmark Wal-Mart v. Dukes Ruling And Its Impact On Employment Class Actions

Dariely Rodriguez    
2,221 words
23 November 2011
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2011 Mondaq Ltd    

This article originally appeared in Nassau Lawyer, September 2011.

On June 20, 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed the lower courts' certification of a class of approximately 1.5 million current and former female Wal-Mart employees who alleged sex discrimination. In its decision, the Supreme Court raised the bar for plaintiffs seeking class certification, forcing plaintiffs to narrowly define the class when alleging discrimination, and arguably any other legal violation.1 Writing for the majority, Justice Antonin Scalia ruled Plaintiffs did not meet the "commonality" threshold for class certification under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23(a)(2) because they could not demonstrate all class members were subject to the same discriminatory employment policy. While Justices Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor and Kagan disagreed with the application of Rule 23(a)(2), all nine justices agreed that Plaintiffs' backpay claims were improperly certified under Rule 23(b)(2).

Factual and Procedural Background

Plaintiffs asserted claims against Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Wal-Mart") for sex discrimination under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Plaintiffs alleged women employed in Wal-Mart stores were paid less and received fewer promotions than men as a result of Wal-Mart's corporate culture of gender bias, and practice of giving local managers discretion to make pay and promotion decisions. Plaintiffs sought to certify a nationwide class of women who had been subjected to these allegedly discriminatory pay and promotion policies. The class sought injunctive and declaratory relief, punitive damages, and backpay.

The U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California certified the class, finding Plaintiffs satisfied the requirements of Rule 23(a)(2) and 23(b)(2).2 Defendant Wal-Mart appealed, arguing: (1) the putative class did not meet Rule 23(a)'s commonality and typicality requirements; (2) certification of the putative class would eliminate Wal-Mart's ability to respond to Plaintiffs' individual discrimination claims; and (3) class certification under 23(b)(2) was improper because Plaintiffs' individual claims for monetary relief (backpay and compensatory damages) predominated over their claims for injunctive or declaratory remedies.

Reviewing the decision en banc, a divided Ninth Circuit substantially affirmed the District Court's certification, concluding (1) Plaintiffs met Rule 23(a)(2)'s commonality and typicality requirements; (2) their backpay claims were properly certified under Rule 23(b)(2) because those claims did not predominate over the declaratory and injunctive relief claims;3 and (3) the class action could be manageably tried without depriving Wal-Mart of its right to present its statutory defenses if the District Court selected a random set of claims for valuation and then extrapolated the validity and value of the untested claims from the sample set.4

On June 20, 2011, the Supreme Court reversed the Ninth Circuit's decision and held class certification was inappropriate for two reasons. Firstly, Plaintiffs did not satisfy Rule 23(a)(2)'s commonality requirement. Secondly, the Supreme Court held claims for individualized relief, such as backpay, could not be certified under Rule 23(b)(2) because they are not incidental to injunctive relief.

Standards for Class Certification Under Rule 23

Under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23, a party seeking to certify a class must demonstrate it has met all four requirements of Rule 23(a), and at least one of the requirements of Rule 23(b).5 Rule 23(a) requires: "(1) the class is so numerous that joinder of all members is impracticable; (2) there are questions of law or fact common to the class; (3) the claims or defenses of the representative parties are typical of the claims or defenses of the class; and (4) the representative parties will fairly and adequately protect the interests of the class."6 The Rule's four requirements – numerosity, commonality, typicality, and adequate representation – effectively limit class claims to those fairly encompassed by the named plaintiff's claims.7

After satisfying the elements of Rule 23(a), the proposed class must satisfy at least one of the three requirements listed in Rule 23(b). Rule 23(b)(1) permits a class certification where "prosecuting separate actions by or against individual class members would create a risk of either inconsistent or varying adjudications, or adjudications ... that, as a practical matter, would be dispositive of the interests of the other members not parties to the individual adjudications or would substantially impair or impede their ability to protect their interests." Rule 23(b)(2) applies when "the party opposing the class has acted or refused to act on grounds that apply generally to the class, so that final injunctive relief or corresponding declaratory relief is appropriate respecting the class as a whole." Certification of a class under Rule 23(b)(3) will be granted where "questions of law or fact common to class members predominate over any questions affecting only individual members," and a class action would be "superior to other available methods for fairly and efficiently adjudicating the controversy."8

Supreme Court's Analysis

In Wal-Mart, Plaintiffs sought class certification under Rules 23(a) and (b)(2). The Supreme Court's Rule 23 analysis focused on whether the proposed class satisfied Rule 23(a)(2)'s commonality requirement, and whether the putative class members' backpay claims could be certified under Rule 23(b)(2).

A. Rule 23(a)(2) – Heightened "Significant Proof Standard"

Speaking for the 5-4 majority, Justice Scalia held that Plaintiffs did not satisfy the commonality standard under Rule 23(a)(2) because they failed to convincingly prove Wal-Mart operated under a company- wide discriminatory pay and promotion policy. Even though circuit courts have liberally applied the commonality requirement, here, the Court held commonality requires class members demonstrate they suffered the "same injury,"9 and not merely a violation of the same law. In addition, the putative class members' claims must be based on a common contention "capable of classwide resolution." 10 The Court opined certification is proper only after a rigorous analysis by the courts, which, the Court acknowledged, often involves a review of the merits of plaintiff's underlying claim.11

Applying this standard to the Wal-Mart proposed class, the Court found the facts establishing commonality necessarily overlapped with Plaintiffs' allegation that Wal-Mart engaged in a pattern or practice of discrimination. In order to meet the commonality standard, the Supreme Court would have required Plaintiffs to establish a common answer to the crucial question "why was I disfavored" by submitting "significant proof" Wal-Mart operated under a general policy of discrimination.12 Although the record showed Wal-Mart had a policy of allowing local supervisors to exercise discretion when making pay and promotion decisions, the Court found this fact alone to be insufficient. Rather, such discretion could result in three different scenarios.13 Firstly, managers may have based their pay and promotion decisions on "sex-neutral, performance-based" reasons. Secondly, managers may have based their decisions on factors, such as employment test scores, that cause a disparate impact. Thirdly, some managers may have been guilty of intentional sex discrimination. Plaintiffs' evidence, which included expert testimony, statistical evidence and anecdotal evidence, failed to show all individual, discretionary personnel decisions were discriminatory and thus, failed to meet the commonality standard.

For example, Plaintiffs' expert testified Wal-Mart's "strong corporate culture" made it "vulnerable" to "gender bias."14 The expert's inability to "determine with any specificity how regularly stereotypes play a meaningful role in employment decisions at Wal-Mart,"15 resulted in the Court rejecting the testimony, stating it was "worlds away" from meeting the "significant proof" standard. Similarly, while Plaintiffs' regional statistical analyses showed significant disparities in promotions between men and women, the Court also rejected this evidence because it did "not establish the existence of disparities at individual stores, let alone raise the inference that a company-wide policy of discrimination is implemented by discretionary decisions at the store and district level."16 The Court found that merely proving the discretionary system had produced a racial or sexual disparity was not enough; rather Plaintiffs needed to challenge a specific employment practice that tied the putative class members' claims together. Finally, the 120 employee affidavits with reports of alleged discrimination (1 affidavit for approximately every 12,500 class members) only alleged discrimination at a fraction of Wal-Mart's 3,400 stores.17 Consequent ly, the Court held "even if every single" employee account were true, it was insufficient to show the entire company operated under a general policy of discrimination.

For these reasons, a 5-4 majority ruled class certification was inappropriate. Rather than ending its analysis there, the Court reviewed the lower court's finding with regard to Plaintiffs' ability to adequately establish class certification under Rule 23(b)(2).

B. Class Certification is Inappropriate Under Rule 23(b)(2)

A unanimous Court held Plaintiffs' claims for individualized monetary damages could not be certified under Rule 23(b)(2) because such claims, specifically those seeking backpay, are not incidental to injunctive or declaratory relief. The Court held that Rule 23(b)(2) applies only when a single injunction or declaratory judgment would provide relief to each class member. Rule 23(b)(2), the Court held, does not apply to cases where class members would be entitled to individualized injunctive or declaratory relief, or individualized awards of monetary damages. According to the Court, claims for individualized monetary claims can only be certified pursuant to Rule 23(b)(3).18 Thus, the Court held Wal-Mart was entitled to individually litigate each employee's eligibility for backpay.19

Conclusion

The Wal-Mart decision will impact class actions in employment discrimination cases across the country. Plaintiffs will now be forced to narrowly tailor their proposed class to make sure the class claims can be resolved by a common answer. Lower courts will now be able to review the merits of putative class claims when evaluating class certification motions. While the Wal-Mart decision will likely deter plaintiffs from filing overbroad class actions against large employers, it probably will not affect the certification of smaller, more targeted employment class actions based on specific employment practices.

Footnotes

1. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes et al., 564 U.S. ____ (2011).

2. Dukes et al. v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 222 F.R.D. 137, 145 (N.D. Cal. 2004).

3. In order to obtain this result, the Court of Appeals remanded plaintiffs' punitive damages claim in the (b)(2) class so the District Court could determine whether the punitive damages would cause the monetary relief to predominate over the plaintiffs' requests for injunctive and declaratory relief. See Dukes et al. v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 603 F. 3d, at 621.

4. This approach was approved by the Ninth Circuit in Hilao v. Estate of Marcos, 103 F.3d 767, 782-87 (1996). There, compensatory damages for about 9,541 class members were calculated by selecting 137 claims at random, referring those claims to a special master for valuation, and then extrapolating the validity and value of the untested claims from the sample set. Id. at 625-626.

5. Zinser v. Accufiz Research Inst., Inc., 253 F.3d 1180, 1186 (2001).

6. Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(a).

7. General Telephone Co. of Southwest v. Falcon, 457 U.S. 147, 156 (1982).

8. Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(b)(1)-(3).

9. Falcon, supra at 157.

10. Dukes, supra at 9.

11. Falcon, supra at 160.

12. Dukes, supra at 12.

13. The Court has recognized "inappropriate cases," giving discretion to lower-level supervisors can be the basis of Title VII liability under a disparate- impact theory. Watson. Fort Worth Bank & Trust, 487 U.S. 977, 990-91 (1998).

14. 222 F.R.D. at 154.

15. Id. at 192.

16. 603 F.3d, at 637.

17. The Court also stated more than half of the affidavits were from employees concentrated in six states (Alabama, California, Florida, Missouri, Texas, and Wisconsin); half of all States had only one or two anecdotes; and 14 States had no affidavits at all. 603 F.3d, at 634.

18. A class may be certified under Rule 23(b)(3) when "questions of law or fact common to class members predominate over any questions affecting only individual members, and a class action is superior to other available methods for fairly and efficiently adjudicating the controversy. A (b)(3) class is not mandatory; class members are entitled to receive notice, and have the option of withdrawing from the class.

19. The Court rejected the Ninth Circuit's attempt to circumvent Wal-Mart's right to present its statutory defenses with a Trial by Formula, under which the District Court would select a random set of claims for valuation and then extrapolate the validity and value of the untested claims from the sample set.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Ms Dariely Rodriguez

Farrell Fritz, P.C.

1320 RXR Plaza

Uniondale

New York

11556-1320

UNITED STATES

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2011 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Document BBPUB00020111123e7bn000p2

Uphill Battle

By MARK HAMSTRA 
2,483 words
21 November 2011
Supermarket News
SN
10
Volume 59; Number 47
English
© 2011 Penton Business Media. All rights reserved. 

At a Network of Executive Women meeting in California this summer, Michelle Gloecker, the NEW board's chain and senior vice president of home goods at Bentonville, Ark.-based Wal-Mart Stores, summed up the state of the retail industry when it comes to hiring and promoting women.

“We have made a lot of progress on gender diversity,” she told the audience, “but there is much work left to be done.”

Women make up almost half of the retail industry's labor force, yet they comprise just 18.3% of its corporate officers and 5% of its chief executive officers, according to a 2010 report from Catalyst, an organization specializing in gender diversity and inclusion.

Joan Toth, president and chief executive officer of NEW, agreed that progress has been made in this area, even if it can only be seen in terms of increased awareness of diversity and inclusion.

“Raising awareness and tying the business case for diversity back to the business really has been one of our major accomplishments,” she told SN in an interview about the organization's 10th anniversary, which is this year.

“I think the most important thing is that we've gotten diversity and inclusion on the agenda at retail and CPG companies,” she said. “This is particularly important among retailers, which traditionally have not been as advanced with the diversity and inclusion awareness as the supplier companies may be. What I think we have done is shown that diversity and inclusion is not only nice to do and that it is a legal issue, but it is a good business opportunity.”

Traditionally the supermarket industry has faced an uphill battle in recruiting women. Not only has there been what many describe as an “old boys' network” that has been self-perpetuating, but careers in food retailing have been a tough sell in general for both men and women.

Some supermarket companies have been working hard to change that, according to Richard George, professor of food marketing at St. Joseph's University, in Philadelphia.

His school's program, which includes about 55% female students, has been influenced by the recruiting efforts of companies like Wegmans Food Markets, Wakefern Food Corp. and Whole Food Market, he explained.

“Historically the sexiest jobs have been with P&G and Gallo and Coca Cola, and probably still are, and Johnson & Johnson has taken our best students, male or female, and they still do,” he said. “But in the last few years, I have seen a significant shift in terms of food retailing.”

He said the message that the school and some of the food-retailing-company recruiters have been seeking to impart is that students who go to work in the industry could be running the operations of a multi-million-dollar business before long as a store manager, which then opens up possibilities for higher management positions.

“I think a young woman now can see that within a few years she could be running a store than does $2 million a week, or a Target store or a Walmart Supercenter,” George said.

“I think the industry has done a much better job of positioning all of food retail, not just for women.”

CPG companies, he explained, have historically touted the career opportunities their companies offered as being sharply contrasted with those available at retail.

“They used to come in and say, ‘You can work 9 to 5, Monday to Friday, no weekends, and you get a car,’” he said. “The supermarkets would come in and say, ‘You work six days a week, including weekends, and you don't get a car.’

“I used to tell people that if you want to work in the supermarket industry, you only work half a day — pick the 12 hours you want to work,” George quipped.

That stereotype of the retail workplace as being overly demanding has long been a turnoff for women who are thinking about balancing a family and a career, explained Jose Tamez, managing partner in the Denver office of executive recruiting firm Austin Michael. He agreed that CPG companies have held greater allure for these women.

“The perception, and reality, with regard to women's views when comparing retail to CPG is that one is tactical, and the other is strategic; one is operations-driven, the other is driven by marketing and new products; one is 24/7, the other has work-life balance,” he said. “When you draw those distinctions, then it is pretty clear to see which path women are going to go on.

“Supermarket retail is tactically and operationally driven. The general view of professional women is that there's no glamour in supermarket retail.”

CPG companies, by contrast, have not only offered a work environment that women perceive as more attractive, he explained, but they have also recruited women more aggressively and in many cases paid higher wages.

In addition, he noted that department store and fashion retail companies also attract women at a higher rate than food retailers, “and subsequently these segments of retail have much better representation of women in the senior ranks.”

The relative dearth of women executives in food retailing should not be attributed to a gender bias on the part of the industry against women, Tamez explained, although he said he does not discount that such a bias has existed. Instead, the asymmetry can be attributed in large part to women's own career preferences.

The path to the executive suite at supermarket companies has often led individuals through the store operations side of the business — where smelly back rooms and buckets of spoilage could be more repellent to female job-seekers than their male counterparts, Tamez explained.

“Supermarket store operations as a fundamental starting point, both as a spoken and unspoken prerequisite, is not a position that attracts women,” Tamez noted. “Operations can be a big hole in people's careers in terms of their advancement. Because the industry is very operations-driven, without that in your background, it becomes a sort of a glass ceiling.”

Several of the top women executives working at large supermarket chains today, he pointed out, were recruited there from CPG backgrounds — Andrea Wagner at Save-A-Lot and Diane Dietz at Safeway both came from Procter & Gamble before launching retail careers, for example, and Linda Severin at Kroger Co. came from ConAgra.

Some of the high-ranking women who came up through operations include Judy Spires, the chief executive officer at Kings Super Markets in Parsippany, N.J., and Laree Renda, an executive vice president at Safeway.

Tamez said supermarket companies will continue to face challenges in attracting, retaining and promoting women.

“As you have more and more women in the marketplace with degrees, they will have more options, and they will not find the supermarket industry any more appealing,” he said. “Degreed women will have more choices, and the supermarket industry will rarely be in the top two or three.”

‘LIMITING BELIEFS’

A McKinsey & Co. report on women in the work force published earlier this year found that discrimination against women for certain jobs is still widespread in corporate America, and that women themselves also have “limiting beliefs” that impact their own advancement.

“Of all the forces that hold women back, none are as powerful as entrenched beliefs,” the report stated. “While companies have worked hard to eliminate overt discrimination, women still face the pernicious force of mindsets that limit opportunity. Managers — male and female — continue to take viable female candidates out of the running, often on the assumption that the woman can't handle certain jobs and also discharge family obligations.

“We found that many women, too, hold limiting beliefs that stand in their own way — such as waiting to fill in more skills or just waiting to be asked,” the report added.

In a presentation at the NEW meeting in California, Craig Herkert, president and CEO of Minneapolis-based Supervalu, cited a recent Harvard Business Review web post titled, “What Makes a Team Smarter? More Women.” The study found “there was little correlation between a group's collective intelligence and the IQs of its individual members. But, if the group includes more women, the group's collective intelligence rises.”

What mattered most, according to Herkert, “wasn't that group members were all really smart, IQ-wise, but that they listen and respect each other,” he said. “It's about respect, inclusion and consideration for many different outlooks applied to a common issue.”

Also speaking at the conference, Michael Bender, executive vice president of Walmart U.S. and president of Walmart West, urged the mostly female audience to keep a work-life balance.

“As much as I love what I do, I won't let it be my sole identity,” Bender said. “I'll always give 110% to my career, but I cultivate my personal interests — family, friends and many other things — so I can be fulfilled.”

ATTRACTING WOMEN LEADERS

Some supermarket companies have taken extra steps to make their companies more attractive to women leaders, including Safeway, which won the 2006 Catalyst Award for its efforts to advance women in its executive ranks.

The Pleasanton, Calif.-based company launched a program in 2000 called “Championing Change for Women: An Integrated Strategy,” which helped the company boost the number of women working as store managers by 62% from 2000 to 2009, Renda, who is now executive vice president, told SN when SN presented Safeway with a Champion of Diversity Award in 2009. The program also increased the proportion of women vice presidents from 12% to 25% in its first five years, and has served as a template for increasing diversity and inclusion beyond gender at Safeway.

“It's a huge part of who we are and what we do,” Renda told SN. “We concentrate on all kinds of diversity — it's something we were able to formalize and talk about in relation to women, but in how it has evolved, it applies to all types of diversity.”

The initiative incorporates a strong mentoring component, and also a Retail Leadership Development program through which managers seek out diverse talent among the ranks and train store employees to become managers.

An analysis of women among top management at Fortune 500 companies done by Catalyst last year showed that in the retail industry overall, women are fairly well-represented relative to many other industries.

The study found that 17.7% of board seats on retail companies' boards of directors are held by women, compared with 15.7% for the Fortune 500 overall. In the executive ranks, there is even more disparity, with 18.4% of executive officer posts at retail companies held by women, vs. 14.4% overall.

An analysis of Securities & Exchange Commission filings by large supermarket companies shows that they are actually out in front of retail overall in some respects.

At Cincinnati-based Kroger Co., for example, four of the 15 executive officers listed in the company's latest 10-K filing are women, or about 26.7%, well ahead of the retail industry overall. Two of its 14 directors are women, or 14.3% — right about the retail-industry average.

At Safeway, three of the 13 executive officers are women, or 23.1%, while only one of the company's 10 directors is a woman.

Another Catalyst analysis of women executives showed slight gains among women from 2009 to 2010. In 2009, women held 13.5% of executive officer posts at Fortune 500 companies (vs. 14.4% in 2010). In addition, in 2010 women held 7.6% of the top-earner positions in Fortune 500 companies, vs. 6.3% in 2009.

George of St. Joseph's University said he is seeing more and more of his top students being recruited by food retailers, and many of those top students are women.

“It's still an old white boys network, but it's changing slowly,” he said. “Things are changing for the positive.”

2011 FOOD RETAIL SALARIES

POSITION                     SMALL COMPANY ($500M-$2B) MEDIUM COMPANY ($2B-10B) LARGE COMPANY ($10B+)
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER      $605,000                  $950,000                 $2,000,000
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER      $350,000                  $650,000                 $825,000
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER      $325,000                  $475,000                 $700,000
CHIEF MARKETING OFFICER      $315,000                  $450,000                 $600,000
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER    $225,000                  $325,000                 $425,000
VP MARKETING                 $190,000                  $235,000                 $300,000
VP OPERATIONS                $185,000                  $225,000                 $245,000
VP GROCERY                   $185,000                  $220,000                 $235,000
VP PERISHABLES               $185,000                  $225,000                 $240,000
VP NON-PERISHABLES           $185,000                  $210,000                 $225,000
VP GENERAL MERCHANDISE       $185,000                  $210,000                 $225,000
VP MERCHANDISING             $185,000                  $225,000                 $250,000
VP MEAT/SEAFOOD              $155,000                  $175,000                 $200,000
VP PRODUCE/FLORAL            $150,000                  $170,000                 $210,000
VP DISTRIBUTION              $170,000                  $210,000                 $235,000
VP REAL ESTATE               $155,000                  $210,000                 $230,000
VP HR-PEOPLE RESOURCES       $155,000                  $220,000                 $240,000
VP LOSS PREVENTION           $125,000                  $165,000                 $210,000
VP RISK MANAGEMENT           $125,000                  $165,000                 $200,000
DIRECTOR ADVERTISING         $125,000                  $160,000                 $190,000
DIRECTOR TRAINING            $115,000                  $125,000                 $140,000
DIRECTOR WAREHOUSE           $115,000                  $125,000                 $150,000
DIRECTOR TRANSPORTATION      $110,000                  $120,000                 $145,000
DIRECTOR MEAT/SEAFOOD        $115,000                  $125,000                 $145,000
DIRECTOR SEAFOOD             $110,000                  $120,000                 $140,000
DIRECTOR PRODUCE             $110,000                  $125,000                 $150,000
DIRECTOR FLORAL              $100,000                  $110,000                 $140,000
DIRECTOR DELI/BAKERY         $100,000                  $115,000                 $130,000
DIRECTOR GROCERY             $120,000                  $140,000                 $150,000
DIRECTOR GENERAL MERCHANDISE $110,000                  $130,000                 $140,000
DIRECTOR OPERATIONS          $125,000                  $150,000                 $160,000
DIRECTOR REAL ESTATE         $120,000                  $140,000                 $155,000
DIRECTOR INTERNAL AUDIT      $120,000                  $135,000                 $150,000
DISTRICT MANAGER             $120,000                  $140,000                 $150,000
CATEGORY MANAGER             $95,000                   $110,000                 $120,000


The table excludes bonuses, special incentives or other compensation factors for corporate office employees and does not cover divisional offices. It is a sampling of the industry based on salary ranges at companies that are seeking to fill vacancies, on current salary data, and Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Salaries have been rounded off to the nearest $5,000.

SOURCE: Austin-Michael Executive Search; www.austin-michael.com

WOMEN LEADERS AT MAJOR U.S. FOOD RETAILERS

COMPANY                WOMEN EXECUTIVE OFFICERS* WOMEN DIRECTORS**
Wal-Mart Stores        1 OUT OF 12 TOTAL         3 OUT OF 13 TOTAL
Target Corp.           5 OF 11                   5 OF 11
Costco Wholesale Corp. 0 OF 11                   2 OF 14
Kroger Co.             4 OF 15                   2 OF 14
Safeway                3 OF 13                   1 OF 10
Supervalu              3 OF 11                   2 OF 11
Whole Foods Market     1 OF 5                    2 OF 12


* Based on most recent 10-K filing with the SEC

** Based on company websites or most recent proxy filing with the SEC

www.prismb2b.com

Document SN00000020111119e7bl00034

Civil Actions
CIVIL ACTIONS; WASHINGTON

387 words
21 November 2011
The National Law Journal
NLJ
20
Volume 34; Issue 12
English
Copyright 2011 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

The following cases were recently filed in the Washington-area district courts. This information is provided by the district courts' official online bulletins.

U.S. DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

Newton v. George Washington University (No. 11-CV-01984, Nov. 9)

Assigned to Judge Amy Berman Jackson. Federal question: employment discrimination. Demand: $750,000. Attorney for plaintiff: Valencia Rainey, Gebhardt & Associates, Washington.

Boland v. C.K. Fairco Inc. (No. 11-CV-01988, Nov. 10)

Assigned to Judge Robert Wilkins. Federal question: Employee Retirement Income Security Act. Attorney for plaintiffs: Ira Mitzner, Dickstein Shapiro, Washington.

Rhodes v. Wimsatt (No. 11-CV-01994, Nov. 9)

Assigned to Judge Rosemary Collyer. Diversity: breach of contract. Demand: $157,000. Attorney for plaintiff: Kerry Raymond, Franklin & Prokopik, Baltimore.

U.S. DISTRICT COURT IN GREENBELT, MD.

Vance v. CHF International (No. 11-CV-03210, Nov. 10)

Assigned to Judge Roger Titus. Diversity: wrongful death. Attorney for plaintiffs: Scott Michael Perry, Bruce J. Klores and Associates, Washington.

Harris v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (No. 11-CV-03211, Nov. 10)

Assigned to Judge Alexander Williams Jr. Federal question: job discrimination (race). Attorney for plaintiff: Lee Boothby, Law Offices of Lee Boothby, Washington.

Kennedy v. Options for Senior America Inc. (No. 11-CV-03236, Nov. 11)

Assigned to Judge Roger Titus. Federal question: Fair Labor Standards Act. Demand: $38,000. Attorney for plaintiff: Jae Sung Hwang, Ki and Hwang, Rockville, Md.

U.S. DISTRICT COURT IN ALEXANDRIA, VA.

Price v. Flagstar Bank FSB (No. 11-CV-01227, Nov. 9)

Assigned to Judge Claude Hilton. Diversity: real property—foreclosure. Notice of removal. Demand: $200,000. Attorney for plaintiff: Henry McLaughlin III, The Law Office of Henry McLaughlin, Richmond, Va. Attorney for defendant: George Everitt Kostel, Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough, Washington.

Cline v. The Charter Oak Fire Insurance Co. (No. 11-CV-01236, Nov. 10)

Assigned to Judge T.S. Ellis III. Diversity: insurance contract. Attorney for plaintiff: Harvey Joseph Volzer, Alexandria, Va. Attorneys for defendant: John Becker Mumford Jr. and Kathryn Elizabeth Kransdorf, Hancock Daniel Johnson & Nagle, Glen Allen, Va.

Hunter v. Hamner Investment Services (No. 11-CV-01240, Nov. 14)

Assigned to Judge Liam O'Grady. Federal question: Fair Debt Collection Act. Attorney for plaintiff: Brian Patrick McMorrow, Law Office of Robert Weed, Manassas, Va.

Document NLJ0000020111128e7bl00011



Racial    Discrimination  Action Against Wal-Mart Trial Date Set: Pre-Trial Testimony Shows Wal-Mart Spied on African-Americans at In-Store Clinic, Says Maumelle Medical Clinics CEO Jerry Poole

879 words
21 November 2011
06:34 AM
PR Newswire (U.S.)
PRN
English
Copyright ©    2011    PR Newswire Association LLC.    All Rights Reserved.    

LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Nov. 21, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Jerry Poole, an entrepreneur with eight years experience in the health care field and owner of the "30 Minute Health Clinic"(TM) for which he had a contract with Wal-Mart Stores, arrived on the morning of May 28 last year with the doctor who headed the clinic's medical team. The clinic, which had been open for seven months was seeing roughly 1200 patients a month, had several patients scheduled for that day and Poole was eager to get the office ready. After several minutes of trying to work the key in the lock, he puzzled why it wouldn't open. Little did Poole realize that this incident involving a lock that had been tampered with, would lead to legal battle the likes of which had not been seen since Watergate.

Poole's concern for his scheduled patients led him to finally phone an executive at Wal-Mart. Poole says he was told that Wal-Mart had changed the locks and were cancelling his lease without any notice. Poole knew his legal rights and was sure that he had followed the strict regulations governing health care clinics.

Poole assembled one of the finest teams of civil rights attorneys in modern history including Mark Lane, world famous author and attorney, who worked with and marched with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. during the early days of the Civil Rights Movement, to Q. Byrum Hurst, a prominent litigator and David Bowden who has won several major cases.

Poole and his Maumelle Medical Clinics, Inc. filed suit in Federal Court seeking a temporary restraining order and demanding immediate reopening of the clinic. The case goes to trial on December 12, in the United States District Court, Western District of Arkansas, Hot Springs, before Hon. Judge Robert Dawson.

"It appears to me that Wal-Mart was upset that many African Americans were visiting the clinic. They complained to the police about the 'Black Males' and 'Black Females' and referred to them 'suspicious' and an 'uncontrolled crowd.' They were patients at the clinic just waiting for the Wal-Mart pharmacist to fill their prescriptions," Lane said.

"One of the saddest aspects of this suit is not only the resurgence of the egregious racial discrimination in our city," plaintiff Poole stated, "but that we could have seen and treated 20,000 people who needed care since our clinic was locked down."

Plaintiff Maumelle Medical Clinics, Inc. is Poole's corporate entity and the "30 Minute Clinic" is his brand and was the subject of a lease agreement between Poole and Wal-Mart Stores Arkansas, LLC, from October, 2009. The clinic opened on November 2, 2009, and within a month went from seeing eight patients a day to 1200 patients a month. Since the closure by Wal-Mart Poole estimates over 20,000 people have been denied good quality health care since there are no other clinics like his in the vicinity.

Recently, Poole attorney Mark Lane deposed a woman who works as a security guard, or as they are now called, "Asset Protection Coordinator, " by Wal-Mart. The security guard gave sworn testimony that she worked in the Wal-Mart store where Poole's "30 Minute Clinic" was situated. She testified that she monitored security cameras that had a 360 degree view of the store including the "30 Minute Clinic." She also testified that she had seen security videotape of the area inside the store. As recorded by the Little Rock Police Department, the witness admitted that she had phoned the police in April, to report what police logs state was an "uncontrolled crowd" which she said was interfering with the flow of people in checkout lines.

When examined further by Lane, the witness admitted that she was "looking for possible shoplifters." However the witness said that she did not call the police because she had witnessed "any possible shoplifters." In her testimony, she admitted to having spied on people though she swore that her call to the police was about an "uncontrolled crowd." Lane asked the witness if she observed any screaming, fighting or pushing. The witness said, "No." While the witness didn't deny that the people she observed were customers, she said that they were "a large group preventing our customers from being able to get out of the register lines."

Lane asked the witness what the designations in her own report meant when she put the letters, "BM." The witness answered "Black Male." And asked what "BF" meant by counsel, the witness answered "Black Female." And after her testimony was concluded it was clear that in terms of what she reported as "suspicious activity," in every single instance, the witness testified, "The suspicious activity was - Yes, related to Black Female or Black Male." The witness testified that nothing in terms of their clothing or demeanor (whether they wore uniforms, brandished weapons, wore masks or carried placards) distinguished them to her other than the fact that they were African Americans.

SOURCE Maumelle Medical Clinics, Inc.

/

Jaffe & Co., Inc., +1-310-275-7327    

Document PRN0000020111121e7bl0003k



Racial    Discrimination  Action Against Wal-Mart Trial Date Set: Pre-Trial Testimony Shows Wal-Mart Spied on African-Americans at In-Store Clinic, Says Maumelle Medical Clinics CEO Jerry Poole

854 words
21 November 2011
05:33 AM
PR Newswire (U.S.)
PRN
English
Copyright ©    2011    PR Newswire Association LLC.    All Rights Reserved.    

LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Nov. 21, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Jerry Poole, an entrepreneur with eight years experience in the health care field and owner of the "30 Minute Health Clinic"(TM) for which he had a contract with Wal-Mart Stores, arrived on the morning of May 28 last year with the doctor who headed the clinic's medical team. The clinic, which had been open for seven months was seeing roughly 1200 patients a month, had several patients scheduled for that day and Poole was eager to get the office ready. After several minutes of trying to work the key in the lock, he puzzled why it wouldn't open. Little did Poole realize that this incident involving a lock that had been tampered with, would lead to legal battle the likes of which had not been seen since Watergate.

Poole's concern for his scheduled patients led him to finally phone an executive at Wal-Mart. Poole says he was told that Wal-Mart had changed the locks and were cancelling his lease without any notice. Poole knew his legal rights and was sure that he had followed the strict regulations governing health care clinics.

Poole assembled one of the finest teams of civil rights attorneys in modern history including Mark Lane, world famous author and attorney, who worked with and marched with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. during the early days of the Civil Rights Movement, to Q. Byrum Hurst, a prominent litigator and David Bowden who has won several major cases.

Poole and his Maumelle Medical Clinics, Inc. filed suit in Federal Court seeking a temporary restraining order and demanding immediate reopening of the clinic. The case goes to trial on December 12, in the United States District Court, Western District of Arkansas, Hot Springs, before Hon. Judge Robert Dawson.

"I have rarely seen the equal of such overt racial discrimination against African Americans and Hispanics since before the Civil Rights Act of 1964," attorney and best-selling author, Mark Lane, stated.

"One of the saddest aspects of this suit is not only the resurgence of the egregious racial discrimination in our city," plaintiff Poole stated, "but that we could have seen and treated 20,000 people who needed care since our clinic was locked down."

Plaintiff Maumelle Medical Clinics, Inc. is Poole's corporate entity and the "30 Minute Clinic" is his brand and was the subject of a lease agreement between Poole and Wal-Mart Stores Arkansas, LLC, from October, 2009. The clinic opened on November 2, 2009, and within a month went from seeing eight patients a day to 1200 patients a month. Since the closure by Wal-Mart Poole estimates over 20,000 people have been denied good quality health care since there are no other clinics like his in the vicinity.

Recently, Poole attorney Mark Lane deposed a woman who works as a security guard, or as they are now called, "Asset Protection Coordinator, " by Wal-Mart. The security guard gave sworn testimony that she worked in the Wal-Mart store where Poole's "30 Minute Clinic" was situated. She testified that she monitored security cameras that had a 360 degree view of the store including the "30 Minute Clinic." She also testified that she had seen security videotape of the area inside the store. As recorded by the Little Rock Police Department, the witness admitted that she had phoned the police in April, to report what police logs state was an "uncontrolled crowd" which she said was interfering with the flow of people in checkout lines.

When examined further by Lane, the witness admitted that she was "looking for possible shoplifters." However the witness said that she did not call the police because she had witnessed "any possible shoplifters." In her testimony, she admitted to having spied on people though she swore that her call to the police was about an "uncontrolled crowd." Lane asked the witness if she observed any screaming, fighting or pushing. The witness said, "No." While the witness didn't deny that the people she observed were customers, she said that they were "a large group preventing our customers from being able to get out of the register lines."

Lane asked the witness what the designations in her own report meant when she put the letters, "BM." The witness answered "Black Male." And asked what "BF" meant by counsel, the witness answered "Black Female." And after her testimony was concluded it was clear that in terms of what she reported as "suspicious activity," in every single instance, the witness testified, "The suspicious activity was - Yes, related to Black Female or Black Male." The witness testified that nothing in terms of their clothing or demeanor (whether they wore uniforms, brandished weapons, wore masks or carried placards) distinguished them to her other than the fact that they were African Americans.

SOURCE Maumelle Medical Clinics, Inc.

/

Jaffe & Co., Inc., +1-310-275-7327    

Document PRN0000020111121e7bl0002d



Maumelle Medical Clinics: Racial    Discrimination  Action Against Wal-Mart Trial Date Set: Pre-Trial Testimony Shows Wal-Mart Spied on African-Americans at in-Store Clinic, Says Maumelle Medical Clinics' CEO Jerry Poole

Distributed by Contify.com      
877 words
21 November 2011
India Pharma News
ATPHAM
English
Copyright © 2011. Contify.com      

New Delhi, Nov. 21 -- Jerry Poole, an entrepreneur with eight years experience in the health care field and owner of the "30 Minute Health Clinic" for which he had a contract with Wal-Mart Stores, arrived on the morning of May 28 last year with the doctor who headed the clinic's medical team. The clinic, which had been open for seven months was seeing roughly 1200 patients a month, had several patients scheduled for that day and Poole was eager to get the office ready. After several minutes of trying to work the key in the lock, he puzzled why it wouldn't open. Little did Poole realize that this incident involving a lock that had been tampered with, would lead to legal battle the likes of which had not been seen since Watergate.

Poole's concern for his scheduled patients led him to finally phone an executive at Wal-Mart. Poole says he was told that Wal-Mart had changed the locks and were cancelling his lease without any notice. Poole knew his legal rights and was sure that he had followed the strict regulations governing health care clinics.

Poole assembled one of the finest teams of civil rights attorneys in modern history including Mark Lane, world famous author and attorney, who worked with and marched with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. during the early days of the Civil Rights Movement, to Q. Byrum Hurst, a prominent litigator and David Bowden who has won several major cases.

Poole and his Maumelle Medical Clinics, Inc. filed suit in Federal Court seeking a temporary restraining order and demanding immediate reopening of the clinic. The case goes to trial on December 12, in the United States District Court, Western District of Arkansas, Hot Springs, before Hon. Judge Robert Dawson.

"It appears to me that Wal-Mart was upset that many African Americans were visiting the clinic. They complained to the police about the 'Black Males' and 'Black Females' and referred to them 'suspicious' and an 'uncontrolled crowd.' They were patients at the clinic just waiting for the Wal-Mart pharmacist to fill their prescriptions," Lane said.

"One of the saddest aspects of this suit is not only the resurgence of the egregious racial discrimination in our city," plaintiff Poole stated, "but that we could have seen and treated 20,000 people who needed care since our clinic was locked down."

Plaintiff Maumelle Medical Clinics, Inc. is Poole's corporate entity and the "30 Minute Clinic" is his brand and was the subject of a lease agreement between Poole and Wal-Mart Stores Arkansas, LLC, from October, 2009. The clinic opened on November 2, 2009, and within a month went from seeing eight patients a day to 1200 patients a month. Since the closure by Wal-Mart Poole estimates over 20,000 people have been denied good quality health care since there are no other clinics like his in the vicinity.

Recently, Poole attorney Mark Lane deposed a woman who works as a security guard, or as they are now called, "Asset Protection Coordinator," by Wal-Mart. The security guard gave sworn testimony that she worked in the Wal-Mart store where Poole's "30 Minute Clinic" was situated. She testified that she monitored security cameras that had a 360 degree view of the store including the "30 Minute Clinic." She also testified that she had seen security videotape of the area inside the store. As recorded by the Little Rock Police Department, the witness admitted that she had phoned the police in April, to report what police logs state was an "uncontrolled crowd" which she said was interfering with the flow of people in checkout lines.

When examined further by Lane, the witness admitted that she was "looking for possible shoplifters." However the witness said that she did not call the police because she had witnessed "any possible shoplifters." In her testimony, she admitted to having spied on people though she swore that her call to the police was about an "uncontrolled crowd." Lane asked the witness if she observed any screaming, fighting or pushing. The witness said, "No." While the witness didn't deny that the people she observed were customers, she said that they were "a large group preventing our customers from being able to get out of the register lines."

Lane asked the witness what the designations in her own report meant when she put the letters, "BM." The witness answered "Black Male." And asked what "BF" meant by counsel, the witness answered "Black Female." And after her testimony was concluded it was clear that in terms of what she reported as "suspicious activity," in every single instance, the witness testified, "The suspicious activity was - Yes, related to Black Female or Black Male." The witness testified that nothing in terms of their clothing or demeanor (whether they wore uniforms, brandished weapons, wore masks or carried placards) distinguished them to her other than the fact that they were African Americans.

Images, graphs or charts, if any, have been removed

Document ATPHAM0020111128e7bl000m9



FDI in retail only if players procure 30% stuff from small Indian units, says new clause

Distributed by Contify.com      
498 words
19 November 2011
India Investment News
ATINVT
English
Copyright © 2011. Contify.com      

New Delhi: With a view to securing the interests of Indian suppliers, a new clause has been added in the draft cabinet note on allowing 51% foreign direct investment (FDI) in the multi-brand retailing, under which global retailers looking to set up shops in the country will have to source at least 30% of their merchandise from small Indian manufactures, the Business Standard reported Saturday.

Players present under the single brand retailing segment, where FDI is proposed to be hiked from the present 51% to 100%, will also have to comply with the same sourcing rules that calls for almost one third of procurement of manufactured and processed products to come from 'small industries'.

Recently, the finance ministry approved the draft cabinet note allowing 51% FDI in multi-brand retail and 100% in single brand retailing, which is expected to be placed before the cabinet for consideration tonight.

"We are sending the cabinet note on both FDI in single-brand and multi-brand retail by late tonight. All major ministries have given their recommendations on the draft note. Now, it is up to the cabinet to take a call," a senior Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) official told the paper.

Besides, as per the draft cabinet note, for units to qualify as smaller industries, they must not have machinery and total plant investment exceeding approximately Rs 12.5 million. The investment refers to the valuation at the time of installation, without providing for depreciation.

The Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) has prepared the draft note on FDI in single and multi-brand retailing after an extensive consultations with various ministries.

In July, the Committee of Secretaries (CoS) had recommended up to 51% FDI in the multi-brand retail sector and a minimum foreign investment worth $100 million in back-end operations.

Presently, 51% FDI is allowed in the single brand retail; whereas, 100% FDI is permitted in the cash-and-carry segment and wholesale. The country so far does not allow any FDI into the multi-brand retail sector.

Global retailers like Wal-Mart Stores Inc, Tesco Plc and Carrefour SA are looking to launch stores in the country. Walmart currently runs 14 cash-and-carry outlets under a joint venture, namely Bharti Walmart Pvt Ltd, with India's Bharti Enterprises Ltd.

Earlier, CoS recommendations did not include the new clause on sourcing from small industries because of concerns raised by the finance ministry's department of economic affairs, which felt it could lead to harassment of small industries by government inspectors.

However, the clause was again reinserted in the current draft after concerns were raised by the ministries of agriculture, micro, small and medium enterprises, and the Department of Information & Technology considering the interests of farmers and small industry in the country.

Images, graphs or charts, if any, have been removed

Document ATINVT0020111119e7bj0002t

Search Summary

 All of these words

     At least one of these words
discrimination discriminatory discriminate discriminates discriminated discriminating harassment
     None of these words

     This exact phrase

     Date
11/16/2011 to 01/15/2012
     Source
All Sources
     Author
All Authors
     Company
Walmart Inc
     Subject
All Subjects
     Industry
All Industries
     Region
All Regions
     Language
English
     Results Found
40
     Timestamp
16 June 2023 10:26 AM
    
