 
•	AP News in Brief at 7:58 p.m. EST
•	Case Brief: On Punitive And Mental Distress Damages For Harassment
•	Carol Ciufolo: Walmart protesters should leave shoppers alone
•	Walmart pulls "Pashtun Papa" Halloween costume after being accused of racism
•	Asda's Equal Value case: not about sex, about unions
•	“Fat girl costumes”: Retailer in Halloween shocker
•	Asda faces mass legal action from staff over equal pay
•	Asda faces equal pay battle
•	Wish my money was here
•	Wish my money was here
•	Asda could face mass legal action over equal pay
•	Asda facing equal pay action
•	Asda faces mass legal action from staff over equal pay
•	Asda faces mass legal action on equal pay
•	Asda checkout staff in equal pay fight: Female workers may challenge bosses in court over claims men are paid more
•	Asda women may sue over equal pay
•	Asda hit by equal pay row
•	Asda sued in 'gender pay gap' dispute
•	Asda equal pay storm
•	ASDA CHECKOUT STAFF IN EQUAL PAY FIGHT
•	Asda is facing legal action over pay
•	Asda faces legal action over equal pay
•	Asda faces mass action over claim of 'discriminatory' pay
•	19,000 to sue Asda
•	Thousands of women to sue Asda for equal pay
•	Thousands of women to sue Asda for equal pay
•	Thousands of women to sue Asda for equal pay
•	ASDA FACES MASS ACTION ON EQUAL PAY
•	ASDA FACES MASS ACTION ON EQUAL PAY
•	Asda Pledges To Fight Staff Equal Pay Action
•	LET THE PUBLIC SPEAK
•	Asda faces legal challenge over equal pay
•	Asda test case could put retail sector in firing line over equal pay
•	Asda may face mass legal claim over equal pay
•	BC-Business News Digest
•	WAL-MART STORES EAST WILL PAY $72,500 TO SETTLE EEOC DISABILITY DISCRIMINATION LAWSUIT
•	Wal-Mart Stores East Will Pay to $72,500 to Settle EEOC Disability Discrimination Lawsuit
•	The 21st Annual Meeting for the Investment Community - Final
•	LET THE PUBLIC SPEAK
•	BC-AP News Digest 6 pm
•	BC-AP News Coverage Advisory 10:15
•	America's oldest workers: Why we refuse to retire!
•	Fairview Township man awaiting sentencing after indecent assault conviction
•	What Branchless Banking Means for the CRA
•	Apple, Wal-Mart Can Teach CUs About Membership
•	EMPLOYMENT; Wal-Mart worker prevails on age discrimination claim
•	Apple, Wal-Mart Can Teach CUs About Membership
•	BC-MS--Mississippi News Digest,ADVISORY, MS
•	GLAD files discrimination complaint against Wal-Mart over health coverage
•	The Bank of Wal-Mart Is Open for Business



AP News in Brief at 7:58 p.m. EST

2,315 words
18 November 2014
08:00 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2014.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

Israel vows harsh response after Palestinian attackers kill 5 in Jerusalem synagogue

JERUSALEM (AP) — Israel vowed harsh retaliation Tuesday for a Palestinian attack that killed five people and left blood-smeared prayer books and shawls on the floor of a synagogue in Jerusalem — an assault that sharply escalated already-high tensions after weeks of religious violence.

The attack during morning prayers in the west Jerusalem neighborhood of Har Nof was carried out by two Palestinian cousins wielding meat cleavers, knives and a handgun. They were shot to death by police after the deadliest assault in the holy city since 2008.

Four of the dead were rabbis and one was a police officer who died of his wounds hours after the attack. Three of the rabbis were born in the United States and the fourth was born in England, although all held dual Israeli citizenship. Five others were wounded.

Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas condemned the attack, the first time he has done so in the wave of deadly violence against Israelis. But he also called for an end to Israeli "provocations" surrounding Jerusalem's shrines that are sacred to both Muslims and Jews.

President Barack Obama called the attack "horrific" and without justification, urging cooperation from both sides to ease tensions and adding that too many Israelis and Palestinians have died in recent months,

___

Some Republicans oppose Senate bill to curb NSA's collection of domestic phone records

WASHINGTON (AP) — The fate of President Barack Obama's proposal to end bulk collection of American phone records by the National Security Agency was in doubt Tuesday as key Republican senators began lining up against it.

The White House-backed legislation, known as the USA Freedom Act, faced a cloture vote in the Senate, meaning that 60 votes would be required to allow final consideration. The bill would end the NSA's collection of domestic calling records, instead requiring the agency to obtain a court order each time it wants to analyze the records in terrorism cases, and obtain the records from the telephone companies. In many cases the companies store the records for 18 months.

The revelation that the spying agency had been collecting and storing domestic phone records since shortly after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, was among the most significant by Edward Snowden, a former agency network administrator who turned over secret NSA documents to journalists. The NSA says it queries the records about 300 times a year, using known terrorist phone numbers, to determine whether any plots are active inside the United States.

Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said he would oppose the USA Freedom Act because it would "hinder the ability of intelligence community analysts to query a database to determine links between potential terrorists." He urged colleagues to oppose the measure.

McConnell pointed out that the bill includes no requirement that the telephone companies continue to hold the data.

___

US safety agency demands automakers, Takata expand air bag recall to entire nation

DETROIT (AP) — The federal government is demanding that the auto industry recall millions of additional cars equipped with faulty air bags that can injure — and even kill — a driver.

The action Tuesday by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration covers driver's side air bags equipped with inflators made by Takata Corp. of Japan. The inflators can erupt and send metal fragments into the passenger compartment.

Previously, cars with the inflators had been recalled only in regions with high humidity such as Gulf Coast states, Hawaii and Puerto Rico. Takata has said that prolonged exposure to moisture can cause the air bag propellant to burn faster than designed, causing the problem.

Up until now, about 8 million cars in the U.S. with Takata inflators have been recalled for problems with either the driver or passenger side air bag, or both. Safety regulators say Tuesday's action is based on incidents involving a death in California and an injury in North Carolina where the air bags were implicated. Both states are outside of the area covered by the earlier recalls.

"One can be an anomaly. Two becomes a trend, and we feel we need to act," said NHTSA Deputy Administrator David Friedman.

___

It's 'no' on the Keystone oil pipeline — for now; GOP vows replay after taking Senate control

WASHINGTON (AP) — In a combustible blend of oil and politics, the Democratic-controlled Senate rejected legislation Tuesday night to force completion of the Keystone XL Pipeline. Republicans vowed to resurrect the controversial issue soon after taking two-house control of Congress in January.

The 59-41 Senate vote was one short of the 60 needed to clear the House-passed measure, and marked a severe blow to embattled Sen. Mary Landrieu of Louisiana. While President Barack Obama and much of her party oppose the bill, the third-term Democrat had commandeered control of the chamber's agenda in hopes of securing approval of the project and boosting her chances in an uphill Dec. 6 runoff election.

All 45 Senate Republicans supported the legislation to build the Canada-to-Texas pipeline. Only 14 of 55 Democrats and allied independents joined them, a total that didn't budge despite an appeal by the Louisiana Democrat behind closed doors a few hours before the vote.

The vote was one of the last acts of this Senate controlled by the Democrats. It is expected to complete its work by mid-December.

But Republicans said a pipeline replay with the potential to spark a veto confrontation with Obama would be coming — and soon.

___

150 cars snowbound on New York Thruway during early winter storm; Crews work to reach them

BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) — A state official says about 150 vehicles were stranded on a four-mile section of the New York State Thruway because of lake-effect snow, but all the passenger cars are expected to be freed by 10 p.m. Tuesday.

Dan Weiller of the Thruway Authority says many vehicles have been removed but he was unable to give exact numbers.

The coach of the Niagara University women's basketball team said by cellphone at 6 p.m. Tuesday that the team's bus had been stuck on the Thruway since 1 a.m.

Weiller said the speed and ferocity of the snow caused it to pile up 3- to 4-feet high, creating a "challenging situation."

___

Fracking to be permitted in parts of George Washington National Forest under new plan

NORFOLK, Va. (AP) — Environmentalists and energy boosters alike welcomed a federal compromise announced Tuesday that will allow fracking in the largest national forest in the eastern United States, but make most of its woods off-limits to drilling.

The decision was highly anticipated because about half of the George Washington National Forest sits atop the Marcellus shale formation, a vast underground deposit of natural gas that runs from upstate New York to West Virginia and yields more than $10 billion in gas a year.

The federal management plan reverses an outright ban on hydraulic fracturing that the U.S. Forest Service had proposed in 2011 for the 1.1 million-acre forest, which includes the headwaters of the James and Potomac rivers. Those rivers feed the Chesapeake Bay, which is the focus of a multibillion-dollar, multistate restoration directed by the Environmental Protection Agency.

A total ban would have been a first for America's national forests, which unlike national parks are commonly leased out for mining, timber and drilling. But some environmentalists were pleased that at least some balance was struck between energy development and conservation.

"We think the decision shows the Forest Service listened to the local community," said Sarah Francisco, leader of the Southern Environmental Law Center's national forests and parks program. "The vast majority of the forest is protected in this decision."

___

Lawyer: Tracy Morgan suffered severe brain injury in crash, uncertain if he'll be who he was

TRENTON, N.J. (AP) — Tracy Morgan is fighting to recover from a severe brain injury suffered in a highway crash more than five months ago, and it's uncertain if he will be "the Tracy Morgan he once was," his lawyer said Tuesday.

Benedict Morelli said the former "Saturday Night Live" and "30 Rock" star suffered a traumatic brain injury in the June 7 crash on the New Jersey Turnpike, in addition to a broken leg, nose and ribs.

"He's fighting to get better, and if there's a chance for him to be back to the Tracy Morgan he once was, he's going to try to do that," Morelli said. "But we just don't know because of the severity of the injuries that he sustained and the fact that he had such a severe brain injury."

Lawyers were in court in New Jersey for a scheduling conference in Morgan's lawsuit against Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart Stores Inc., whose truck was involved in the crash. Morgan wasn't at Tuesday's proceeding, during which lawyers met with the judge to settle on a schedule.

A Wal-Mart truck slammed into a limo van that was carrying Morgan and several friends on their way back from a show in Delaware. One person was killed, and three others were injured, two seriously. Morgan spent several weeks in a hospital and in rehab.

___

As Ferguson decision nears on indictment, federal probe of police could bring deeper impact

WASHINGTON (AP) — As local authorities in Missouri near the end of their investigation in the Ferguson shooting, a broader federal civil rights review could hold a greater potential to refashion the police department and bring long-lasting change.

While a St. Louis County grand jury investigates the Aug. 9 shooting of 18-year-old Michael Brown, the Justice Department is investigating, too. More than two months into its probe of the Ferguson department's practices, the civil rights inquiry is focusing on use-of-force, stops and searches and possible patterns of discrimination in the ways that officers in the predominantly white department interact with the majority-black community.

Results are likely months away and may do little quickly to mollify the community. But whether or not officer Darren Wilson ends up facing state or federal criminal prosecution, the civil rights investigation will continue. In similar cases, broad federal investigations of police departments have dictated changes in how officers carry out the most fundamental of tasks, from searching suspects to making traffic stops.

"If the end goal of this is to ensure that no one's civil rights get violated, that everyone is treated decently and their constitutional rights are protected, the best thing that can come out of this is an overall look at the department," said David Weinstein, a former federal civil rights prosecutor in Miami.

Outgoing U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder has made the overhaul of troubled police departments among his civil-rights priorities. In the past five years, the Justice Department has investigated some 20 police departments for problems that include treatment of the mentally ill, high numbers of officer-involved shootings and patterns of excessive force and racial bias. Police departments in Detroit, Seattle and New Orleans are among those that have committed to reforms.

___

Hospitals work to improvise Ebola treatment plans, but preparedness comes at a cost

NEW YORK (AP) — What does it take to Ebola-proof a hospital?

Over the past few months, U.S. medical centers have spent millions of dollars putting together a plan to treat patients with the scary, but extremely rare disease.

To a large extent, it has been an exercise in improvisation.

In Newark, New Jersey, a hospital dealing with a space-crunch and staff anxiety moved its Ebola operation out of its main building and into a mobile medical shelter ordinarily used during natural disasters. In Dallas, Texas, three hospital systems pooled resources to create a treatment center in a defunct intensive care unit sitting empty since the spring. In Kansas, a hospital hastily built walls and hung plastic sheeting to create an isolation suite. A New York City hospital put together one unit, decided it wasn't optimal, and is finishing work on a replacement.

Federal officials have said they're trying to identify up to 20 hospitals around the country as Ebola referral centers. U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention inspection teams have visited nearly 30 hospitals to offer advice and see if they have the right safeguards in place to treat patients with Ebola.

___

UN push to hold North Korea, Kim accountable for alleged crimes against humanity moves ahead

UNITED NATIONS (AP) — The world's boldest effort yet to hold North Korea and leader Kim Jong Un accountable for alleged crimes against humanity moved forward Tuesday at the United Nations, where a Pyongyang envoy threatened further nuclear tests.

The U.N. General Assembly's human rights committee approved a resolution that urges the Security Council to refer the country's harsh human rights situation to the International Criminal Court. The non-binding resolution now goes to the General Assembly for a vote in the coming weeks. China and Russia, which hold veto power on the council, voted against it.

The resolution was inspired by a groundbreaking U.N. commission of inquiry report early this year that declared North Korea's human rights situation "exceeds all others in duration, intensity and horror."

The idea that their young leader could be targeted by prosecutors sent North Korean officials on a furious effort to derail the effort.

North Korea sent a sharp warning in comments before the vote. Trying to punish it over human rights "is compelling us not to refrain any further from conducting nuclear tests," said Choe Myong Nam, a foreign ministry adviser for U.N. and human rights issues. His colleagues gave no details on that threat.

Document APRS000020141118eabi000ft



Case Brief: On Punitive And Mental Distress Damages For    Harassment 

Michael Torrance      
589 words
14 November 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd      

In 2012, we reported on an Ontario jury award of approximately $1.5 million damages to a 42-year-old former assistant manager who resigned her employment at Wal-Mart after being verbally abused and harassed by her 32-year-old store manager. At trial, the employee was found entitled to $200,000 for intentional infliction of mental suffering, $1 million in punitive damages and $10,000 for assault. The manager was ordered to pay $100,000 for intentional infliction of mental suffering and $150,000 in punitive damages. We noted that an appeal of the award, the highest in Canada at that time, was a virtual certainty. In fact, both parties appealed.

In Boucher v Wal-Mart Canada Corp., 2014 ONCA 419, the Ontario Court of Appeal significantly reduced the punitive damages and dismissed the employee's claim for loss of wages. The Court of Appeal held that a punitive award of $200,000 was sufficient to punish Wal-Mart, having regard to the magnitude of the compensatory damages awarded, the relatively short duration of the harassment and the fact that Wal-Mart did not deliberately set out to bring about the employee's resignation. The punitive award against the manager was reduced to $10,000 on the same basis. The Court of Appeal did not alter the findings of liability. It held that liability was justified given Wal-Mart's refusal to take the employer's complaints seriously, its dismissal of her complaints as unsubstantiated despite substantial evidence to the contrary, its unwillingness to discipline the manager or intervene to stop his continuing mistreatment of the plaintiff, its threatened reprisal against her and its contravention of its own workplace policies.

Norton Rose Fulbright Canada LLP

Norton Rose Fulbright is a global legal practice. We provide the world's pre-eminent corporations and financial institutions with a full business law service. We have more than 3800 lawyers based in over 50 cities across Europe, the United States, Canada, Latin America, Asia, Australia, Africa, the Middle East and Central Asia.

Recognized for our industry focus, we are strong across all the key industry sectors: financial institutions; energy; infrastructure, mining and commodities; transport; technology and innovation; and life sciences and healthcare.

Wherever we are, we operate in accordance with our global business principles of quality, unity and integrity. We aim to provide the highest possible standard of legal service in each of our offices and to maintain that level of quality at every point of contact.

Norton Rose Fulbright LLP, Norton Rose Fulbright Australia, Norton Rose Fulbright Canada LLP, Norton Rose Fulbright South Africa (incorporated as Deneys Reitz Inc) and Fulbright & Jaworski LLP, each of which is a separate legal entity, are members ('the Norton Rose Fulbright members') of Norton Rose Fulbright Verein, a Swiss Verein. Norton Rose Fulbright Verein helps coordinate the activities of the Norton Rose Fulbright members but does not itself provide legal services to clients.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Mr Michael Torrance

Norton Rose Fulbright Canada LLP

Suite 3800

Royal Bank Plaza, South Tower

200 Bay Street, P.O. Box 84

Toronto

Ontario

M5J 2Z4

CANADA

Tel: 4162164000

Fax: 4162163930

E-mail: info@nortonrosefulbright.com

URL: www.nortonrose.com/ca/en/

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Document BBPUB00020141114eabe000h8

Opinion
Carol Ciufolo: Walmart protesters should leave shoppers alone

318 words
11 November 2014
Daily Camera
CAMERA
English
© 2014 Prairie Mountain Publishing, LLP. All Rights Reserved.      

Matt Nicodemus' piece in the Camera accusing Walmart of deploying security personnel to keep protesters from "making contact with ... shoppers" (Saturday, Nov. 8) certainly failed to spark the reaction in me that he had hoped for. My reaction, instead, is to wonder at the gross paranoia that this piece exposes.

Did it occur to Mr. Nicodemus that perhaps the customers of Walmart do not want to be approached by protesters and have made that wish clear to the Walmart management? The CSERB's activities are not planned and conducted in secret and those who want to exercise their freedom to shop where they want are also free to express to a business owner that they do not want to be subject to what they may consider harassment.

Does Mr. Nicodemus think shoppers have not heard the arguments CSERB is trying make? Is it not possible that shoppers might still choose to shop where prices are affordable in comparison to Trader Joe's or Whole Foods, even Safeway and King Soopers, and where value is a consideration? Do they not have the right to make their own judgments about their shopping choices, or does Mr. Nicodemus just assume that they are all ignorant of facts and must be educated? What arrogance.

Mr. Nicodemus' conclusion to "underline how far Walmart will go" is completely misdirected. He relies on a discussion with the manager of 24 Hour Fitness, which turns out to be untruthful, and somehow that points the finger at Walmart as the demon? The fact that the mini-mall management had not been contacted about the protest is Walmart's fault? If CSERB has a problem with Walmart it should restrict its actions to telling it to Walmart. Leave the individual shoppers alone. Mr. Nicodemus has done a real disservice to his organization with this little diatribe.

Carol Ciufolo

Boulder

Document CAMERA0020141112eabb0002b



NEWS
Walmart pulls "Pashtun Papa" Halloween costume after being accused of racism

By Rob Crilly New York      
434 words
31 October 2014
09:11 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.      

"Nothing is sacred this Halloween," runs the controversial sales blurb. "Shock your friends with this Islamic costume."

The giant American retailer Walmart has been forced to withdraw its "Pashtun Papa" Halloween costume after being accused of peddling racist stereotypes.

The outfit sold for $39.95 (£25) and featured the loose-fitting shalwar kameez of the sort favoured by Muslims living in South Asia, along with a waistcoat, cap and shaggy grey beard.

"Whether you're making a serious political statement or staging a political parody," said the online description, "this authentic-looking outfit is sure to fit the bill!"

"Nothing is sacred this Halloween. Shock your friends with this Islamic costume."

The Pashtun tribe live predominantly in north-west Pakistan and across Afghanistan, and make up the bulk of the Taliban.

The image sparked outrage - particularly in Muslim countries where thousands of people took to Twitter to condemn the outfit.

"This is offensive and discriminatory," said one user. "Will you even think of having a KKK costume."

Many Muslims said they were horrified at the idea that an "Islamic costume" would scare people at Halloween, and instead suggested sarcastically that people should go out trick or treating dressed as "moderate Muslims".

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">Oh @Walmart ... I wish it were surprising that you have the cultural sensitivity of a turnip. http://t.co/fQUt3nxuEz

— heather barr (@heatherbarr1) October 31, 2014

As the criticism mounted throughout the day, Walmart was forced on to the defensive.

A spokeswoman told Buzzfeed that the costume had been sold by a third-party vendor and that it would be removed from the company's website immediately.

'We have strict policies with our third party vendors, and it's very important to us that products on the site don't offend groups of people, or minorities.' she said.

A short time later Walmart announced via Twitter that the offending item was no longer available and apologised to customers.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">Regarding the ﾓPashtun Papaﾔ costume, we have removed it from our site and are deeply sorry for any offense that it caused.

— Walmart Newsroom (@WalmartNewsroom) October 31, 2014

Meanwhile, in the UK, shops have come under increasing pressure not to sell costumes that demonise the mentally ill. Last year Asda and Tesco were forced to withdraw "mental ward" outfits.

And 10 days ago, Toys R Us quietly withdrew a range of drug dealer dolls based on the television series Breaking Bad.

Document TELUK00020141101eab1000dx



News
Asda's Equal Value case: not about sex, about unions

Adam Leyland      
423 words
1 November 2014
The Grocer
GROCR
3
English
© Copyright 2014. William Reed Business Media Ltd.      

CEO Andy Clarke (the Archbishop of Asda, as Michael Buerk dubbed him at the IGD Convention), can afford to feel just a little bit smug at the moment.

While trading in the EDLP supermarket can't hold a candle to the EDLP discounters in terms of growth, at least it's in positive territory, as its early and simple devotion to tackling the price gap to Aldi and Lidl has started to bear fruit.

Unfortunately, other events seem to have a habit of overshadowing Asda's trading progress. Earlier this year it was his decision to axe 1,360 in-store jobs. Now a dispute involving in-store checkout workers is threatening to do the same again. And this one is not even related to his own actions.

Under a directive called Equal Value, introduced by the EU in 2006, if two jobs are similar in scale and impact, it has decreed they should be in the same pay band. A class action lawsuit involving 19,000 checkout staff argues their pay rates should therefore be the same as for a job in one of its DCs.

The debate has been framed as a gender discrimination case in the national media. It's no such thing: the case rests on whether the work of a checkout assistant - whatever their sex - is the same as that of a worker in a DC.

But there's a third way of looking at this: it's not about sex, or work, it's about union power. In 2006, then-CEO Andy Bond tried to take on supply chain workers. When they threatened to strike - backed by the GMB - Asda caved in. It was a rare failure for Bond in his turnaround of the Walmart-owned retailer. And the GMB went on, two years ago, to use collective bargaining to increase pay and productivity. And from next year, the GMB is expected to win recognition again in Asda.

In the case of shop floor workers, however - represented by Usdaw - the pressure on management has been negligible. Until now. The ambulance-chasing lawyers at Leigh Day have taken up the cudgels on behalf of shop floor workers. And if they win against Asda, the floodgates open: this is a case that will affect every supermarket. In fact, every retailer. So while the spotlight is on Tesco, Morrisons and Sainsbury's, it's also on Asda and Andy Clarke. And he must be wondering: why me?

Document GROCR00020141031eab100004



“Fat girl costumes”: Retailer in Halloween shocker

by SmartCompany      
465 words
29 October 2014
Smart Company
SMACOM
English
© Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty. Ltd. All Right Reserved.      

US retail giant Walmart has come under fire for devoting a section of its online store to “fat girl costumes" for Halloween.

This appeared to be an ill-advised move to target the plus size market.

Walmart’s costume section was first identified by news site  Jezebel  but Walmart moved slowly to address the issue.

Even as “fat girl costumes" hit the top 10 Twitter trends in the United States the website section remained up and Walmart sent auto responses to complaints via social media reading “your comments and suggestions are important to us and help make Walmart even better. Thank you."

Fat girl costumes? and @Walmart will be issuing an apology in 3, 2, ..... #EPICFAILpic.twitter.com/NI8EjSFR9F

— Deanna King (@CynicalMother) October 27, 2014

But Inc reportsWalmart followed one mistake with another, replacing the “fat girl costumes" section with "Women's Plus Size Halloween Costumes" with a banner at the top of the page: "Make it a monstrously big Halloween for less."

Walmart then moved to apologise, saying: “This never should have been on our site in the first place. It's unacceptable that it appeared, and we apologize."

Melbourne University senior lecturer Dr Lauren Rosewarne, an expert on gender and discrimination issues, told SmartCompany the outrage over Walmart’s costume category highlights the power of social media.

“Something like this in an earlier era could be quickly remedied before, but a furore can now become global news in a single screenshot," she says.

Rosewarne says businesses need to be very vigilant about language in our hyper -sensitive and outrage-prone culture.

“It shows how powerful a word like ‘fat’ is in our culture and yet how apparently – if strangely safe – ‘plus-size’ is as a descriptor," she says.

“We are a culture that is most comfortable with euphemisms."

Michelle Gamble, chief executive of Marketing Angels, says Walmart should not have a label on this section of the website and should just offer the larger sizes.

“You only see this sort of stuff as it relates to women, I’m sure they don’t have fat man costumes," he says.

“It’s part of the objectification of women in the media and is a sad reflection in terms of where we are in society."

Gamble says Walmart did the right thing by apologising but didn’t need to make a distinction between this range of costumes and other costumes. 

“[The term] ‘fat girl’ is quite sexist as well as being offensive to people who are larger," she says.

“I would think it’s more normal in the States to be of larger size, so they are potentially alienating a lot of their target market."

Follow SmartCompany on  Facebook  ,  LinkedIn  and  Twitter  .

Document SMACOM0020141029eaat00008



Frontpage
Asda faces mass legal action from staff over equal pay

Maria Tadeo      
353 words
27 October 2014
04:23 AM
Independent Online
INDOP
English
© 2014. Independent Print Ltd. All Rights Reserved.      

Asda denies it engages in discriminatory practices insisting it treats all employees equally

Supermarket giant Asda faces mass legal action from thousands of female employees in a case of gender discrimination.

Female employees working in Asda stores claim they were paid less than male colleagues working in the supermarket's distribution centres, despite carrying out roles of similar value.

Law firm Leigh Day, which is representing a group of current and former Asda employees, argues this is a case of gender discrimination since warehouse jobs, which often involve lifting and moving heavy items, are seen as "men's jobs".

"In the supermarkets the check-out staff and shelf-stackers are mostly women. The people in the warehouses are pretty much all men," said Michael Newman, an employment law specialist at Leigh Day. "And, as a whole, the group that is mostly men gets paid more."

He added: "Our investigations suggest that the jobs are pretty much the same, in that warehouse staff are responsible for taking items off shelves, putting them on pallets and loading them into lorries.

"In the supermarket, they do the reverse: taking the pallets off the lorries, unstacking them and putting the items on the shelves. Where the jobs are not similar, we still think they are of equal value."

Business news in pictures

The supermarket, which employs 170,000 workers in the UK, could be forced to pay staff the difference in wages stretching back six years if an employment tribunal rules it breached the equal pay provisions of the Equality Act.

The case carries implications for the supermarket industry as a whole and the way grocers pay employees working for different departments.

Asda denied it engages in discriminatory practices and insisted it treats all employees equally.

A spokesman added: "A firm of no-win, no-fee lawyers is hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer.

"We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend."

Document INDOP00020141024eaao004mr



Business
Asda faces equal pay battle

173 words
26 October 2014
The Sunday Times
ST
1; National
5
English
© Times Newspapers Limited 2014      

Asda, Britain's secondbiggest supermarket, is at the centre of a mass legal action over pay.

The American-owned group is being pursued in employment tribunals over claims that it does not pay women in its stores the same as men in its distribution warehouses, despite their jobs being of "equal value".

Leigh Day, the law firm behind the class action, said it is representing hundreds of existing and former staff in relation to the case and that it had received 19,000 inquiries in total.

Most of the workers being represented in the legal action are female.

Asda, which employs 175,000 staff, has denied that it discriminates and is expected to fight the claims vigorously. It said it would "robustly defend" its record on equal pay.

Leigh Day argues that while male warehouse workers take goods off shelves and load them into lorries, women are doing the same job in reverse, taking goods off the lorry and putting them on to shelves in the store.

Document ST00000020141026eaaq000fe



News
Wish my money was here

Matthew Goodman      
1,736 words
26 October 2014
The Sunday Times
ST
1; National
5
English
© Times Newspapers Limited 2014      

All employers face a PPI-style compensation nightmare if rulings on holiday pay go against them in the next few days, writes Matthew Goodman

Asda faces equal pay battle

When Joe Lock went back to work in January 2012, it wasn't just the end of the Christmas holidays that left him downbeat. The British Gas sales rep discovered that his pay packet was much lighter than usual, too.

His bosses tried to explain. Lock hadn't struck any deals on his two-week break, so he wasn't entitled to any commission. It was a painful drop — in a typical month, he picked up about £2,000 in salesrelated earnings, almost double his basic pay of just over £1,200.

Lock thought this dramatic drop in wages was unfair and, with the backing of Unison, his trade union, he took British Gas to an employment tribunal.

"It is only fair that people working for commission, who often earn a very low basic wage, are not deterred from taking the annual leave they are entitled to, and don't suffer financially when they do," he told The Sunday Times.

The tribunal referred the case to the European Court of Justice, which backed Lock. He declared its ruling "a victory for common sense". The European court handed the case back to the tribunal, which must now deliver a final adjudication, including how Lock should be compensated.

It is not only British Gas sweating on the outcome.

Boardrooms across the country are worried the case could open the floodgates for many similar claims and leave businesses liable for hundreds of millions of pounds in back-dated payments and higher future costs. "The holiday pay timebomb could have a hugely detrimental impact on businesses," said Allie Renison, head of European and trade policy at the Institute of Directors. "We could end up with a situation that makes the PPI claims saga look small."

British companies calculate holiday pay by working out the average amount paid to a member of staff in the period before going on leave. Overtime, sales commissions and other extras are not included.

In the Lock case, the European Court declared this unacceptable.

It argued that while on annual leave, a worker must receive his "normal" remuneration. Not doing so may put workers off taking their holiday, it said.

A final ruling in the case had been expected last week but was postponed until next year. The delay may be so that those involved can take heed of judgments in two similar cases expected in the next few days.

Two engineering companies, Hertel and Bear Scotland, are being taken to court by workers who claim their holiday pay was less than it should have been because their employers did not factor in voluntary overtime. If the workers win, as many expect, the big question will be whether the tribunal will rule on how far back Hertel and Bear Scotland have to go to make good on the holiday pay arrangements.

The nightmare scenario is that companies will be forced to backdate claims to 1998, when Europe's working time directive, designed to guarantee staff breaks and holidays, was introduced to Britain.

"There could potentially be a massive liability in claims for backdated pay," said Euan Smith, an employment specialist at the law firm Pinsent Masons. "An employee would be able to look back and say to their employer, you did not pay me enough for my holiday. Multiply that and you get to hundreds of millions of pounds."

The PPI claims fiasco hit only deep-pocketed banks, but holiday pay claims could be disastrous for smaller companies. Without government intervention, "we face the very real prospect of successful firms in this country going out of business, with the jobs they provide going too," said Katja Hall, deputy director-general of the CBI.

IN the summer of last year, personnel managers at John Lewis noticed something odd. They realised that the way they were calculating staff holiday pay was out of step with the most up-to-date methodology.

Bosses ordered a full review, and in August of that year the retailer announced it would make good any shortfall and amend its policy. Doing so was far from cheap. John Lewis set aside £40m to cover the cost of reimbursing workers who had been underpaid since 2006.

The financial hit was greeted with some dismay by the media, but industry watchers believe the short-term pain will be worth it.

"If the partnership had tried to wheedle out of their back-pay obligations there would have been more of a fuss," said Nick Bubb, a retail analyst. "As it is, they kept staff happy and, to the extent that they have a happy and motivated workforce, it might just explain why John Lewis and Waitrose have continued to outperform in sales terms over the last year."

Whether other large companies will prove quite as paternalistic remains to be seen. Of the many FTSE 100 companies approached by The Sunday Times for comment on holiday pay, none was prepared to comment except Centricaowned British Gas, which said it was "examining" the matter.

"It's a very sensitive issue for many employers," said Tim Thomas, head of employment policy at EEF, a trade body for manufacturers and engineers. "It's something they are very concerned about."

It is perhaps not surprising that John Lewis was caught out, given the scale of the changes in the way holiday pay regulations are interpreted. "Most employers feel they have been complying with the rules," said Kate Hodgkiss, a partner specialising in employment disputes at law firm DLA Piper. "The cases at the European Court of Justice are casting wide ripples."

The first people to challenge the status quo in Britain were airline pilots. Six years ago, their union, Balpa, sued British Airways because the carrier did not include various supplements, such as money for time away from their base airport, in holiday pay calculations.

The case was referred to Europe and the UK Supreme Court which both ruled in favour of the pilots and paved the way for settlements with other airlines. "We were very pleased," said Piers Applegarth, a retired pilot. "[With the new rules] everyone could see where they stood and how much they would get paid."

Balpa estimates the legal battle delivered £35m to its members. Following the union's victory, a similar case brought by the RMT against Freightliner, a logistics company, was settled out of court. That leaves the forthcoming trio of employment tribunal judgments, which are likely to have a profound impact. And whatever the outcome, it seems likely the decisions will be subject to appeals.

SIMON BOYD is worried. An executive at Reid Steel, a family-owned construction business, he said the company has set aside significant sums of money, ostensibly to pay for its ambitious growth plans. These would be put at risk if Reid had to fork out for much higher staff costs as a result of an adverse decision in the tribunal. "For a business like ours, we expect a 39% increase in holiday pay," he said.

Louise Stewart, who has helped run Naked Health, a spa business in Wimbledon, southwest London, for 10 years, is equally horrified by the potential impact of the cases, arguing that it would cause her to abandon the carefully worked out and effective incentive pay system she uses: "We would have to think of new ways of doing things when we have a system that everyone has been happy with for all this time."

Employers argue that the only people who would benefit would be the lawyers, and there are suggestions that some firms known for specialising in personal injury cases are already gearing up to recruit claimants looking to make money from holiday pay disputes. "Never mind aggressive PPI calls," said Boyd. "We'll all be getting 'Has your holiday pay been underpaid?'."

For smaller companies, which make up the majority of British businesses, the worries are particularly acute.

"Our biggest concern would be the threat of backdating the ruling, which could trigger multiple claims and create substantial costs for employers," said John Allan, chairman of the Federation of Small Businesses. The prospect of a legal free-for-all has prompted employers' bodies to call for government intervention to prevent the nightmare from becoming a reality. It now looks as though ministers will attempt to limit fallout from the cases before the tribunal.

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills said: "We do not believe voluntary overtime should be included in holiday pay and are concerned about the potential impact on employers. We understand the deep concern felt by many employers and have intervened in the Employment Appeal Tribunal cases to make our views clear."

That may prove reassuring, but the prospect of hefty pay claims is taking its toll in other ways. Sarah Henchoz, an employment law partner at City law firm Allen & Overy, said that clients making acquisitions are already factoring in the potential costs when sizing up deals. "It is one of those issues that has caused the most angst among clients in the past couple of months," she said. "It really does have a wideranging impact."

Asda faces equal pay battle

Asda, Britain's secondbiggest supermarket, is at the centre of a mass legal action over pay.

The American-owned group is being pursued in employment tribunals over claims that it does not pay women in its stores the same as men in its distribution warehouses, despite their jobs being of "equal value".

Leigh Day, the law firm behind the class action, said it is representing hundreds of existing and former staff in relation to the case and that it had received 19,000 inquiries in total.

Most of the workers being represented in the legal action are female.

Asda, which employs 175,000 staff, has denied that it discriminates and is expected to fight the claims vigorously. It said it would "robustly defend" its record on equal pay.

Leigh Day argues that while male warehouse workers take goods off shelves and load them into lorries, women are doing the same job in reverse, taking goods off the lorry and putting them on to shelves in the store.

"THE WORST-CASE SCENARIO IS THAT COMPANIES MIGHT HAVE TO BACKDATE CLAIMS TO 1998

Document ST00000020141026eaaq000em



Financial
Wish my money was here

Matthew Goodman      
1,719 words
25 October 2014
07:01 PM
sundaytimes.co.uk
SUNDTI
English
© Times Newspapers Limited 2014      

All employers face a PPI-style compensation nightmare if rulings on holiday pay goes against them in the next few days

Asda faces equal pay battle

When Joe Lock went back to work in January 2012, it wasn’t just the end of the Christmas holidays that left him downbeat. The British Gas sales rep discovered that his pay packet was much lighter than usual, too.

His bosses tried to explain. Lock hadn’t struck any deals on his two-week break, so he wasn’t entitled to any commission. It was a painful drop — in a typical month, he picked up about £2,000 in sales- related earnings, almost double his basic pay of just over £1,200.

Lock thought this dramatic drop in wages was unfair and, with the backing of Unison, his trade union, he took British Gas to an employment tribunal.

“It is only fair that people working for commission, who often earn a very low basic wage, are not deterred from taking the annual leave they are entitled to, and don’t suffer financially when they do,” he told The Sunday Times.

The tribunal referred the case to the European Court of Justice, which backed Lock. He declared its ruling “a victory for common sense”. The European court handed the case back to the tribunal, which must now deliver a final adjudication, including how Lock should be compensated.

It is not only British Gas sweating on the outcome. Boardrooms across the country are worried the case could open the floodgates for many similar claims and leave businesses liable for hundreds of millions of pounds in back-dated payments and higher future costs.

“The holiday pay timebomb could have a hugely detrimental impact on businesses,” said Allie Renison, head of European and trade policy at the Institute of Directors. “We could end up with a situation that makes the PPI claims saga look small.”

British companies calculate holiday pay by working out the average amount paid to a member of staff in the period before going on leave. Overtime, sales commissions and other extras are not included.

In the Lock case, the European Court declared this unacceptable. It argued that while on annual leave, a worker must receive his “normal” remuneration. Not doing so may put workers off taking their holiday, it said.

A final ruling in the case had been expected last week but was postponed until next year. The delay may be so that those involved can take heed of judgments in two similar cases expected in the next few days.

Two engineering companies, Hertel and Bear Scotland, are being taken to court by workers who claim their holiday pay was less than it should have been because their employers did not factor in voluntary overtime. If the workers win, as many expect, the big question will be whether the tribunal will rule on how far back Hertel and Bear Scotland have to go to make good on the holiday pay arrangements.

The nightmare scenario is that companies will be forced to backdate claims to 1998, when Europe’s working time directive, designed to guarantee staff breaks and holidays, was introduced to Britain.

“There could potentially be a massive liability in claims for backdated pay,” said Euan Smith, an employment specialist at the law firm Pinsent Masons. “An employee would be able to look back and say to their employer, you did not pay me enough for my holiday. Multiply that and you get to hundreds of millions of pounds.”

The PPI claims fiasco hit only deep-pocketed banks, but holiday pay claims could be disastrous for smaller companies. Without government intervention, “we face the very real prospect of successful firms in this country going out of business, with the jobs they provide going too,” said Katja Hall, deputy director-general of the CBI.

IN the summer of last year, personnel managers at John Lewis noticed something odd. They realised that the way they were calculating staff holiday pay was out of step with the most up-to-date methodology.

Bosses ordered a full review, and in August of that year the retailer announced it would make good any shortfall and amend its policy. Doing so was far from cheap. John Lewis set aside £40m to cover the cost of reimbursing workers who had been underpaid since 2006.

The financial hit was greeted with some dismay by the media, but industry watchers believe the short-term pain will be worth it.

“If the partnership had tried to wheedle out of their back-pay obligations there would have been more of a fuss,” said Nick Bubb, a retail analyst. “As it is, they kept staff happy and, to the extent that they have a happy and motivated workforce, it might just explain why John Lewis and Waitrose have continued to outperform in sales terms over the last year.”

Whether other large companies will prove quite as paternalistic remains to be seen. Of the many FTSE 100 companies approached by The Sunday Times for comment on holiday pay, none was prepared to comment except Centrica-owned British Gas, which said it was “examining” the matter.

“It’s a very sensitive issue for many employers,” said Tim Thomas, head of employment policy at EEF, a trade body for manufacturers and engineers. “It’s something they are very concerned about.”

It is perhaps not surprising that John Lewis was caught out, given the scale of the changes in the way holiday pay regulations are interpreted. “Most employers feel they have been complying with the rules,” said Kate Hodgkiss, a partner specialising in employment disputes at law firm DLA Piper. “The cases at the European Court of Justice are casting wide ripples.”

The first people to challenge the status quo in Britain were airline pilots. Six years ago, their union, Balpa, sued British Airways because the carrier did not include various supplements, such as money for time away from their base airport, in holiday pay calculations.

The case was referred to Europe and the UK Supreme Court which both ruled in favour of the pilots and paved the way for settlements with other airlines. “We were very pleased,” said Piers Applegarth, a retired pilot. “[With the new rules] everyone could see where they stood and how much they would get paid.”

Balpa estimates the legal battle delivered £35m to its members. Following the union’s victory, a similar case brought by the RMT against Freightliner, a logistics company, was settled out of court.

That leaves the forthcoming trio of employment tribunal judgments, which are likely to have a profound impact. And whatever the outcome, it seems likely the decisions will be subject to appeals.

SIMON BOYD is worried. An executive at Reid Steel, a family-owned construction business, he said the company has set aside significant sums of money, ostensibly to pay for its ambitious growth plans. These would be put at risk if Reid had to fork out for much higher staff costs as a result of an adverse decision in the tribunal. “For a business like ours, we expect a 39% increase in holiday pay,” he said.

Louise Stewart, who has helped run Naked Health, a spa business in Wimbledon, south-west London, for 10 years, is equally horrified by the potential impact of the cases, arguing that it would cause her to abandon the carefully worked out and effective incentive pay system she uses: “We would have to think of new ways of doing things when we have a system that everyone has been happy with for all this time.”

Employers argue that the only people who would benefit would be the lawyers, and there are suggestions that some firms known for specialising in personal injury cases are already gearing up to recruit claimants looking to make money from holiday pay disputes. “Never mind aggressive PPI calls,” said Boyd. “We’ll all be getting ‘Has your holiday pay been underpaid?’.”

For smaller companies, which make up the majority of British businesses, the worries are particularly acute.

“Our biggest concern would be the threat of backdating the ruling, which could trigger multiple claims and create substantial costs for employers,” said John Allan, chairman of the Federation of Small Businesses. The prospect of a legal free-for-all has prompted employers’ bodies to call for government intervention to prevent the nightmare from becoming a reality. It now looks as though ministers will attempt to limit fallout from the cases before the tribunal.

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills said: “We do not believe voluntary overtime should be included in holiday pay and are concerned about the potential impact on employers. We understand the deep concern felt by many employers and have intervened in the Employment Appeal Tribunal cases to make our views clear.”

That may prove reassuring, but the prospect of hefty pay claims is taking its toll in other ways. Sarah Henchoz, an employment law partner at City law firm Allen & Overy, said that clients making acquisitions are already factoring in the potential costs when sizing up deals. “It is one of those issues that has caused the most angst among clients in the past couple of months,” she said. “It really does have a wide- ranging impact.”

Asda, Britain’s second-biggest supermarket, is at the centre of a mass legal action over pay.

The American-owned group is being pursued in employment tribunals over claims that it does not pay women in its stores the same as men in its distribution warehouses, despite their jobs being of “equal value”.

Leigh Day, the law firm behind the class action, said it is representing hundreds of existing and former staff in relation to the case and that it had received 19,000 inquiries in total.

Most of the workers being represented in the legal action are female.

Asda, which employs 175,000 staff, has denied that it discriminates and is expected to fight the claims vigorously. It said it would “robustly defend” its record on equal pay.

Leigh Day argues that while male warehouse workers take goods off shelves and load them into lorries, women are doing the same job in reverse, taking goods off the lorry and putting them on to shelves in the store.

Document SUNDTI0020141025eaaq0014u



Business
Asda could face mass legal action over equal pay

Alan Tovey    
332 words
25 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
37
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.    

SUPERMARKET giant Asda could be forced to defend itself against legal action by tens of thousands of employees who claim they are underpaid compared with colleagues doing similar work.

Legal firm Leigh Day said it had been approached by 19,000 people – mostly women – after it announced it was taking action against the retailer. The case centres around women employed in Asda's stores being paid less than male colleagues doing similar work in its distribution chain.

"In the supermarkets the checkout staff and shelf–stackers are mostly women," said Michael Newman at Leigh Day.

"The people in the warehouses are pretty much all men. And, as a whole, the group that is mostly men gets paid more. Our investigations suggest that the jobs are pretty much the same, in that warehouse staff are responsible for taking items off shelves, putting them on pallets and loading them into lorries.

"In the supermarket, they do the reverse: taking the pallets off the lorries, unstacking them and putting the items on the shelves.

"Where the jobs are not similar, we still think they are of equal value." Asda, which has 170,000 staff working across 370 stores and 23 depots, could be forced to pay staff the difference in wages going back six years.

Mr Newman added: "Although there have been huge advancements in equal pay within the public sector, there is still a long way to go in the private sector. Compulsory audits are the only way to make sure the gender pay gap is being narrowed. Until now cases simply have not been brought, so you still get very segregated workplaces."

An Asda spokesman said: "A firm of no–win, no–fee lawyers is hoping to challenge our award–winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer. We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend."

Document DT00000020141025eaap0007g



Asda facing equal pay action

erikka askeland    
242 words
25 October 2014
The Press and Journal
FABP
28
English
(c) 2014 The Press and Journal Limited .    

Supermarket giant Asda is facing a mass legal action by women workers who claim they are not paid the same as their male colleagues.

Employment lawyers at Leigh Day say over 19,000 people have approached them to get involved in the case.

The women claim they are not paid the same as male workers in the distribution warehouses – despite their jobs being of “equivalent value”.

The supermarket chain has denied that it discriminates on the basis of gender.

An Asda spokesman said: “A firm of ‘no win, no fee’ lawyers are hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer. We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend.”

New regulations mean that, from October 1, employment tribunals have the power to order employers to conduct equal pay audits when they are found to be in breach of the equal pay provisions of the Equality Act 2010

The case will test how retailers decide what they pay their staff in different parts of their business.

Michael Newman, from Leigh Day, claimed that the implications of the claims were “enormous for Asda and many other supermarkets in the UK”.

Asda has 175,000 employees.

If the claim is successful, claimants may be entitled to six years’ worth of back pay to compensate for the difference in earnings.

Document FABP000020141025eaap0005g



Asda faces mass legal action from staff over equal pay

464 words
25 October 2014
National Iraqi News Agency
NAIRAQ
English
All rights reserved for National Iraqi News Agency/NINA (c) 2014.    Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company    

Asda is facing mass legal action from thousands of female employees who claim they are paid less than men to do equally valuable jobs at the supermarket chain.

Law firm Leigh Day said that since revealing in April it was representing 400 Asda employees it had been approached by more than 19,000.

The mostly female Asda shopfloor staff claim they are underpaid compared with mostly male colleagues working in the supermarket's warehouses.

The case could become the largest ever employment claim in the private sector, the lawyers said. If Asda, which employs 170,000 staff working across 370 stores and 23 depots, loses the claim it could be forced to pay staff the difference in earnings going back six years.

Michael Newman, a discrimination and employment law expert at Leigh Day, said: "In the supermarkets the checkout staff and shelf-stackers are mostly women. The people in the warehouses are pretty much all men. And, as a whole, the group that is mostly men gets paid more.

"Our investigations suggest that the jobs are pretty much the same, in that warehouse staff are responsible for taking items off shelves, putting them on pallets and loading them into lorries. In the supermarket, they do the reverse: taking the pallets off the lorries, unstacking them and putting the items on the shelves. Where the jobs are not similar, we still think they are of equal value."

A spokesperson for Asda said: "A firm of no-win, no-fee lawyers are hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer. We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend."

If the legal action succeeds other supermarkets who also own their distribution centres may face similar claims. Most retailers own some of their distribution centres and lease others and use a mix of directly employed and third-party staff.

Morrisons directly employs nearly three-quarters of staff in its distribution network. Tesco said it directly employs the majority of such staff even though it leases most of its distribution centres.

Sainsbury's refused to comment on the employment status of its distribution staff but said it owned most of the facilities they work in. John Lewis directly employs 3,500 staff in its distribution network, the vast majority of such workers, while Marks & Spencer employs just a fifth of its staff directly.

Unequal pay has been a big battleground in the public sector, with female cleaners and dinner ladies taking legal action over claims they were paid less than men who worked as binmen or street cleaners.All rights are reserved for National Iraqi News Agency / NINA 

Document NAIRAQ0020141026eaap0002t



Guardian Financial Pages
Asda faces mass legal action on equal pay

Rupert Neate    
497 words
25 October 2014
The Guardian
GRDN
47
English
© Copyright 2014.    The Guardian.    All rights reserved.    

Asda is facing mass legal action from thousands of female employees who claim they are paid less than men to do equally valuable jobs at the supermarket chain.

Law firm Leigh Day said that since revealing in April it was representing 400 Asda employees it had been approached by more than 19,000.

The mostly female Asda shopfloor staff claim they are underpaid compared with mostly male colleagues working in the supermarket's warehouses.

The case could become the largest ever employment claim in the private sector, the lawyers said. If Asda, which employs 170,000 staff working across 370 stores and 23 depots, loses the claim it could be forced to pay staff the difference in earnings going back six years.

Michael Newman, a discrimination and employment law expert at Leigh Day, said: "In the supermarkets the checkout staff and shelf-stackers are mostly women. The people in the warehouses are pretty much all men. And, as a whole, the group that is mostly men gets paid more.

"Our investigations suggest that the jobs are pretty much the same, in that warehouse staff are responsible for taking items off shelves, putting them on pallets and loading them into lorries. In the supermarket, they do the reverse: taking the pallets off the lorries, unstacking them and putting the items on the shelves. Where the jobs are not similar, we still think they are of equal value."

A spokesperson for Asda said: "A firm of no-win, no-fee lawyers are hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer. We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend."

If the legal action succeeds other supermarkets who also own their distribution centres may face similar claims. Most retailers own some of their distribution centres and lease others and use a mix of directly employed and third-party staff.

Morrisons directly employs nearly three-quarters of staff in its distribution network. Tesco said it directly employs the majority of such staff even though it leases most of its distribution centres.

Sainsbury's refused to comment on the employment status of its distribution staff but said it owned most of the facilities they work in. John Lewis directly employs 3,500 staff in its distribution network, the vast majority of such workers, while Marks & Spencer employs just a fifth of its staff directly.

Unequal pay has been a big battleground in the public sector, with female cleaners and dinner ladies taking legal action over claims they were paid less than men who worked as binmen or street cleaners.

Birmingham city council has agreed to pay more than pounds 1bn to settle the claims of tens of thousands of women which go back over many years.

Captions:

Shelf stackers, mostly women, say they should earn the same as warehousemen

Document GRDN000020141024eaap000ec



News
Asda checkout staff in equal pay fight: Female workers may challenge bosses in court over claims men are paid more 

RUPERT STEINER FOR THE DAILY MAIL    
315 words
24 October 2014
08:19 PM
Mail Online
DAMONL
English
© 2014 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved    

* Female workers suing over claims they are not considered equally valuable 

* Claim male-dominated warehouse and distribution jobs are better paid 

* At Asda 60 per cent of check out positions are filled by women  

Asda could face legal action from thousands of its shop workers amid claims that it pays female staff less than men.

The action is being brought by checkout workers – predominantly women – who feel their roles are not considered of ‘equivalent value’ to those of higher paid, male-dominated jobs in warehouses.

Law firm Leigh Day is pitching the case as one of inequality under equal pay legislation. 

It hopes to sign up 10,000 of Asda’s 165,000 workers in a class action. What’s at stake is a difference of up to £4-an-hour – a sizeable amount for those working close to the minimum wage.

The law firm is trying to draw similarities with the Ford strike of 1968 when women sewing machinists walked out of a factory in Dagenham after being told their jobs were to be reclassified as less-skilled than those of men working on the production line.

At Asda, staff in the distribution centre are 80 per cent men – the checkouts are 60 per cent women.

Asda claims that the skills required for the roles are different; warehouse workers need to be trained in how to use a forklift truck and health and safety regulations.

Both men and women on the checkouts are part of the class action. They claim their roles require the same level of skill.

A spokesman for Asda said: ‘We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area, which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend.’

Document DAMONL0020141025eaap0008e



Business
Asda women may sue over equal pay

55 words
25 October 2014
The Independent
IND
2ND
43
English
© 2014. Independent Print Ltd. All Rights Reserved.    

Business

Nearly 20,000 female Asda store workers contacted a law firm assembling a mass legal action claiming they are paid less than male colleagues carrying out similar roles in distribution centres. Asda denied it engages in discriminatory practices and insisted it treats all employees equally

BLOOMBERG

Document IND0000020141025eaap0002j



News
Asda hit by equal pay row

122 words
25 October 2014
The Sun
THESUN
1; National
9
English
© News Group Newspapers 2014    

ASDA is facing a mass lawsuit from women workers over equal pay.

The warehouse staff claim they earn up to £4 an hour less than men doing the same job at Britain's second biggest supermarket chain.

The case is being compared to the Made in Dagenham film about female Ford employees which led to the Equal Pay Act of 1970.

The law firm behind the Asda case — Leigh Day — says it has received 19,000 inquiries from current or former Asda staff about the legal action.

An Asda spokesperson said: "We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area which — if it comes to it — we will robustly defend."

Document THESUN0020141025eaap000db



News
Asda sued in 'gender pay gap' dispute

GRAHAM HISCOTT    
151 words
25 October 2014
The Daily Mirror
DMIRR
1; National
6
English
(c) 2014 Mirror Group Ltd    

ASDA is facing legal action from 1,499 workers in a row over equal pay.

The store staff, mostly women paid from £6.89 an hour, claim their work is comparable to that of men in distribution centres, who get up to £3 per hour more.

Law firm Leigh Day is representing the group and said about 80% of those who have lodged employment tribunal claims are staff and the rest are ex-workers.

The company added it has been approached by 19,000 more people since the legal action was announced.

The cases are based on the claim that both sets of staff carry and lift products as part of their duties.

If Asda loses, claimants could get six years' back pay as compensation.

The chain said: "We don't discriminate and are proud of our record in this area."

Document DMIRR00020141025eaap000ag



News
Asda equal pay storm

100 words
25 October 2014
Scottish Daily Record
DRECRD
1; National
32
English
(c) 2014 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd    

ASDA are facing legal action from thousands of store workers over equal pay.

Shop staff - mostly female - say their jobs are of equal value to male workers at the supermarket's distribution centres who are paid more.

Lawyers Leigh Day say the pay gap can be as much as £4 an hour. They have lodged claims on behalf of 1500 staff and been approached by 19,000 more.

An Asda spokesman said: "We do not discriminate and are proud of our record in this area which, if it comes to it, we'll robustly defend."

Document DRECRD0020141025eaap0003s



News
ASDA CHECKOUT STAFF IN EQUAL PAY FIGHT

BY RUPERT STEINER CHIEF    
268 words
25 October 2014
Daily Mail
DAIM
2
English
(c) 2014 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved    

ASDA could face legal action from thousands of its shop workers amid claims that it pays female staff less than men.

The action is being brought by checkout workers - predominantly women - who feel their roles are not considered of 'equivalent value' to those of higher paid, male-dominated jobs in warehouses.

Law firm Leigh Day is pitching the case as one of inequality under equal pay legislation. It hopes to sign up 10,000 of Asda's 165,000 workers in a class action. What's at stake is a difference of up to £4-an-hour - a sizeable amount for those working close to the minimum wage.

The law firm is trying to draw similarities with the Ford strike of 1968 when women sewing machinists walked out of a factory in Dagenham after being told their jobs were to be reclassified as less-skilled than those of men working on the production line.

At Asda, staff in the distribution centre are 80 per cent men - the checkouts are 60 per cent women.

Asda claims that the skills required for the roles are different; warehouse workers need to be trained in how to use a forklift truck and health and safety regulations.

Both men and women on the checkouts are part of the class action. They claim their roles require the same level of skill.

A spokesman for Asda said: 'We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area, which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend.'

© Daily Mail

Document DAIM000020141024eaap0000w

Asda is facing legal action over pay

397 words
25 October 2014
Yorkshire Evening Post
YORKEP
English
(c) 2014 Johnston Publishing Limited      

Supermarket giant Asda is facing legal action by more than 19,000 people over equal pay at the chain, it is claimed.

Employment law experts at Leigh Day said it was taking legal action against the Leeds-based firm.

Lawyers said it was representing hundreds of former and current employees, mainly female, who feel they have been paid less than others despite carrying out roles of equal value, and had so far been approached by 19,000 staff.

Discrimination and employment law expert Michael Newman said the claims are possible after investigations revealed that employees in the Asda-owned distribution centres were paid more than staff working in the supermarkets themselves.

If the case against Asda, which has 175,000 employees, is successful, claimants may be entitled to six years’ worth of back pay to compensate for the difference in earnings.

The outcome could have implications for other major retailers. Supermarket chains that also own their distribution centres include Sainsbury’s and Bradford-based Morrisons.

New regulations mean employment tribunals have the power to order employers to conduct audits when they are found to be in breach of the equal pay provisions of the Equality Act 2010.

Mr Newman claimed the implications were “enormous for Asda and many other supermarkets in the UK”.

He said: “In the supermarkets, the check-out staff and shelf-stackers are mostly women. The people in the warehouses are pretty much all men. And, as a whole, the group that is mostly men gets paid more.

“Our investigations suggest that the jobs are pretty much the same, in that warehouse staff are responsible for taking items off shelves, putting them on pallets and loading them into lorries.

“In the supermarket, they do the reverse – taking the pallets off the lorries, unstacking them and putting the items on the shelves. Where the jobs are not similar, we still think they are of equal value. Although there have been huge advancements in equal pay within the public sector, there is still a long way to go in the private sector.”

Asda said: “A firm of no-win, no-fee lawyers is hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer. We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend.”

Document YORKEP0020141026eaap00008

HS - News
Asda faces legal action over equal pay

NO BYLINE      
284 words
25 October 2014
Evening Times
EVETIM
1
8
English
© 2014, Herald & Times Group      

SUPERMARKET chain Asda is facing a mass legal action by women who work in their stores.

Female employees claim they are not paid the same as male workers in the distribution warehouses – despite their jobs being of “equivalent value”.

The case will test how retailers decide what they pay their staff in different parts of their business. If the women are successful it could have serious ramifications for the whole sector.

The legal action, ­believed to be the largest of its kind in the private sector, could lead to some very high payouts.

Leigh Day, the law firm managing the case, said it has already received 19,000 inquiries from current or former Asda staff in relation to the group legal action.

More than 1000 employment tribunal claims have already been lodged.

The majority of those affected are women but interestingly, there are also some male employees working in the stores who are taking part in the process.

They would also see a pay rise if the action taken on behalf of women under equal pay legislation is successful.

Asda has signalled it will fight the claims vigorously and says it does not discriminate.

Lauren Loughheed, the solicitor with Leigh Day who is leading the case, said that the pay difference between shop and warehouse workers could be as much as £4 an hour.

An Asda spokeswoman said: “A firm of no win, no fee lawyers are hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer.

“We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area which, if it comes to it, we will ­robustly defend.”

Document EVETIM0020141025eaap00012



News
Asda faces mass action over claim of ' discriminatory ' pay

By Maria Tadeo      
224 words
25 October 2014
i
IIND
1ST
11
English
© 2014 Independent Print Ltd.    All rights reserved      

News | EMPLOYMENT

Supermarket giant Asda faces mass legal action from thousands of female employees who claim they are victims of gender discrimination.

Female staff working in its stores say they were paid less than male colleagues working in the supermarket's distribution centres, despite having roles of similar value.

Law firm Leigh Day, which is representing a group of current and former Asda employees, argues this is a case of gender discrimination since warehouse jobs, which often involve lifting and moving heavy items, are seen as "men's jobs".

"Our investigations suggest that the jobs are pretty much the same, in that warehouse staff are responsible for taking items off shelves, putting them on pallets and loading them into lorries," said Michael Newman, an employment law specialist at Leigh Day. "In the supermarket, they do the reverse."

The supermarket, which employs 170,000 workers in the UK, could be forced to pay staff the difference in wages stretching back six years if an employment tribunal rules it breached the equal pay provisions of the Equality Act.

The case carries implications for the supermarket industry as a whole and the way grocers pay employees working for different departments.

Asda denied it engages in discriminatory practices and insisted it treats all employees equally.

Document IIND000020141025eaap0001p



News
19,000 to sue Asda

55 words
25 October 2014
Daily Star
DAISTA
1; Lancs
8
English
(c) copyright Express Newspapers 2014      

GROCERY giant Asda could face legal action from 19,000 employees, many of them women, who say they have been underpaid.

An Asda spokesman said: "We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend."

Document DAISTA0020141025eaap0000f



News
Thousands of women to sue Asda for equal pay

Frances Gibb      
288 words
25 October 2014
The Times
T
3; National
2
English
© Times Newspapers Limited 2014      

Thousands of women who work at Asda, the UK's second-largest retailer, are preparing a mass legal action over unequal wages. They claim that they are not paid the same as male workers in the distribution warehouses even though their jobs are of "equivalent value".

The case, believed to be one of the largest of its kind, will test levels of pay by retailers and could have widespread implications for the whole of the sector.

More than 1,000 employment tribunal claims have been lodged and Leigh Day, the law firm managing the case, said it had received 19,000 inquiries from current or former Asda staff over the action.

Asda said it would fight the claims vigorously, insisting that it had strong policies on treating all its staff equally. "A firm of no-win, no-fee lawyers are hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer," a spokesman said. "We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area."

Michael Newman, an employment law and discrimination specialist with Leigh Day, said investigations had revealed that employees in Asda-owned distribution centres were paid more than staff working in the stores.

If successful, claimants may be entitled to six years' worth of back pay to compensate for the difference in earnings.

Mr Newman said that the implications of the claims were "enormous for Asda and many other supermarkets in the UK".

He added: "In the supermarkets the checkout staff and shelf-stackers are mostly women. The people in the warehouses are pretty much all men. As a whole, the group that is mostly men gets paid more."

Document T000000020141025eaap000cz



News
Thousands of women to sue Asda for equal pay

Frances Gibb      
288 words
25 October 2014
The Times
T
1; Eire
2
English
© Times Newspapers Limited 2014      

Thousands of women who work at Asda, the UK's second largest retailer, are preparing a mass legal action over unequal wages. They claim that they are not paid the same as male workers in the distribution warehouses even though their jobs are of "equivalent value".

The case, believed to be one of the largest of its kind, will test levels of pay by retailers and could have widespread implications for the whole of the sector.

More than 1,000 employment tribunal claims have been lodged and Leigh Day, the law firm managing the case, said it had received 19,000 inquiries from current or former Asda staff over the action.

Asda said it would fight the claims vigorously, insisting that it had strong policies on treating all its staff equally. "A firm of no-win, no-fee lawyers are hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer," a spokesman said. "We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area."

Michael Newman, an employment law and discrimination specialist with Leigh Day, said investigations had revealed that employees in Asda-owned distribution centres were paid more than staff working in the stores.

If successful, claimants may be entitled to six years' worth of back pay to compensate for the difference in earnings.

Mr Newman said that the implications of the claims were "enormous for Asda and many other supermarkets in the UK".

He added: "In the supermarkets the checkout staff and shelf-stackers are mostly women. The people in the warehouses are pretty much all men. As a whole, the group that is mostly men gets paid more."

Document T000000020141025eaap00005



UK News
Thousands of women to sue Asda for equal pay

Frances Gibb      
289 words
24 October 2014
07:01 PM
thetimes.co.uk
TIMEUK
English
© Times Newspapers Limited 2014      

Thousands of women who work at Asda, the UK’s second-largest retailer, are preparing a mass legal action over unequal wages.

They claim that they are not paid the same as male workers in the distribution warehouses even though their jobs are of “equivalent value”.

The case, believed to be one of the largest of its kind, will test levels of pay by retailers and could have widespread implications for the whole of the sector.

More than 1,000 employment tribunal claims have been lodged and Leigh Day, the law firm managing the case, said it had received 19,000 inquiries from current or former Asda staff over the action.

Asda said it would fight the claims vigorously, insisting that it had strong policies on treating all its staff equally.

“A firm of no-win, no-fee lawyers are hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer,” a spokesman said. “We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area.”

Michael Newman, an employment law and discrimination specialist with Leigh Day, said investigations had revealed that employees in Asda-owned distribution centres were paid more than staff working in the stores.

If successful, claimants may be entitled to six years’ worth of back pay to compensate for the difference in earnings.

Mr Newman said that the implications of the claims were “enormous for Asda and many other supermarkets in the UK”.

He added: “In the supermarkets the checkout staff and shelf-stackers are mostly women. The people in the warehouses are pretty much all men. As a whole, the group that is mostly men gets paid more.”

Document TIMEUK0020141024eaap003v2



ASDA FACES MASS ACTION ON EQUAL PAY

By Kate Ferguson, Press Association    
524 words
24 October 2014
03:36 PM
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
English
(c)2014, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved    

Supermarket giant Asda could face legal action from tens of thousands of mainly female employees who claim they have been underpaid.

Legal firm Leigh Day said they had been approached by 19,000 people, mainly women, after announcing it was taking action against the chain.

The firm said the legal challenge was launched after investigations revealed that employees in the Asda stores are being paid less than colleagues doing similar work in its distribution centres.

If the claimants are successful, they may be entitled to six years' worth of back pay to compensate for the difference in earnings, the firm said.

Michael Newman, a discrimination and employment law expert at Leigh Day, warned that the implications of these legal claims were "enormous for Asda and many other supermarkets in the UK".

He said: "In the supermarkets the check-out staff and shelf-stackers are mostly women. The people in the warehouses are pretty much all men. And, as a whole, the group that is mostly men gets paid more.

"Our investigations suggest that the jobs are pretty much the same, in that warehouse staff are responsible for taking items off shelves, putting them on pallets and loading them into lorries.

"In the supermarket, they do the reverse: taking the pallets off the lorries, unstacking them and putting the items on the shelves. Where the jobs are not similar, we still think they are of equal value."

A spokesman for Leigh Day said the legal challenge is believed to be the largest of its kind in the private sector.

He added: "Although there have been huge advancements in equal pay within the public sector, there is still a long way to go in the private sector. Compulsory audits are the only way to make sure the gender pay gap is being narrowed.

"Until now cases simply have not been brought, so you still get very segregated workplaces."

mfl

Chris Benson, a partner at Leigh Day, said the pay difference between shop and warehouse workers could be as much as £4 an hour - a "big difference" when some of the employees are earning £7 an hour.

He said: "The vast majority of claimants are still employed by Asda, they quite like the job but want to be paid equally going forward.

"The women are pretty aggrieved. Quite a lot of them feel that part of the reason it hasn't been resolved is because they are very loyal to Asda. They like the job and are committed to it, but want to be paid equally."

He warned the challenge could be a "test case" and said other major retailers could face similar actions.

He said the firm had so far lodged 1,500 claims at Manchester Employment Tribunal, and were considering thousands more.

ends

An Asda spokesman said: "A firm of no-win, no-fee lawyers is hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer.

"We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend."

ends

Document PRESSA0020141024eaao005sd



ASDA FACES MASS ACTION ON EQUAL PAY

By Kate Ferguson, Press Association    
522 words
24 October 2014
06:01 PM
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
English
(c)2014, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved    

Supermarket giant Asda could face legal action from tens of thousands of mainly female employees who claim they have been underpaid.

Legal firm Leigh Day said it had been approached by 19,000 people, mainly women, after announcing it was taking action against the chain.

The firm said the legal challenge was launched after investigations revealed that employees in the Asda stores are being paid less than colleagues doing similar work in its distribution centres.

If the claimants are successful, they may be entitled to six years' worth of back pay to compensate for the difference in earnings, the firm said.

Michael Newman, a discrimination and employment law expert at Leigh Day, warned that the implications of these legal claims were "enormous for Asda and many other supermarkets in the UK".

He said: "In the supermarkets the check-out staff and shelf-stackers are mostly women. The people in the warehouses are pretty much all men. And, as a whole, the group that is mostly men gets paid more.

"Our investigations suggest that the jobs are pretty much the same, in that warehouse staff are responsible for taking items off shelves, putting them on pallets and loading them into lorries.

"In the supermarket, they do the reverse: taking the pallets off the lorries, unstacking them and putting the items on the shelves. Where the jobs are not similar, we still think they are of equal value."

A spokesman for Leigh Day said the legal challenge is believed to be the largest of its kind in the private sector.

He added: "Although there have been huge advancements in equal pay within the public sector, there is still a long way to go in the private sector. Compulsory audits are the only way to make sure the gender pay gap is being narrowed.

"Until now cases simply have not been brought, so you still get very segregated workplaces."

Chris Benson, a partner at Leigh Day, said the pay difference between shop and warehouse workers could be as much as £4 an hour - a "big difference" when some of the employees are earning £7 an hour.

He said: "The vast majority of claimants are still employed by Asda, they quite like the job but want to be paid equally going forward.

"The women are pretty aggrieved. Quite a lot of them feel that part of the reason it hasn't been resolved is because they are very loyal to Asda. They like the job and are committed to it, but want to be paid equally."

He warned the challenge could be a "test case" and said other major retailers could face similar actions.

He said the firm had so far lodged 1,500 claims at Manchester Employment Tribunal, and were considering thousands more.

An Asda spokesman said: "A firm of no-win, no-fee lawyers is hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer.

"We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend."

ends

Document PRESSA0020141024eaao006en



Business
Asda Pledges To Fight Staff Equal Pay Action

283 words
24 October 2014
Sky News
SKYN
English
Copyright © 2014 BSkyB    

Asda has said it will "robustly defend" its record on equal pay amid revelations it is facing a legal action potentially involving thousands of workers.

The law firm Leigh Day said it was currently representing hundreds of former and current employees and had been approached by over 19,000 people in total.

The company suggested that a legal victory could result in Asda being forced to hand over back-pay and interest dating back six years.

It said its clients, mostly women, "feel they have been paid less than others within the organisation despite carrying out roles of equal value."

Leigh Day said its case was based on claims that staff in Asda-owned distribution centres were paid more than staff working in the supermarket stores.

The company's employment law expert, Michael Newman, suggested that the implications of the legal claims were big not just for Asda but also other supermarket chains.

He said: "Our investigations suggest that the jobs are pretty much the same, in that warehouse staff are responsible for taking items off shelves, putting them on pallets and loading them into lorries.

"In the supermarket, they do the reverse: taking the pallets off the lorries, unstacking them and putting the items on the shelves.

"Where the jobs are not similar, we still think they are of equal value."

Asda, which has 175,000 employees, said: "A firm of no win, no fee lawyers is hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer.

"We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend."



Document SKYN000020141024eaao00105

Opinion
LET THE PUBLIC SPEAK

926 words
24 October 2014
Press Democrat
SRPD
The Press Democrat
6B
English
© 2014 Press Democrat. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.      

Veterans' services

EDITOR: I would love to see the old Sutter Hospital on Chanate Road become available to veterans for housing, workshops, services - - a multi-use facility. There is such a need for that in this county, and it could become a real lifesaver to some of our struggling veterans.

JANET JENKINS

Santa Rosa

A new spring

EDITOR: Pope Francis understands, based on the experience of living with the poor of Argentina, that "God is not afraid of new things, that he is continuously surprising us, opening our hearts and guiding us in unexpected ways." Francis calls for a more welcoming, more merciful, less rigid church. According to Cardinal Walter Kasper of Germany, who attended the recent meeting in Rome, there was a new joy and a spirit of optimism, something he calls "the Francis effect." There is definitely a new openness to the LGBTQ community as well as to divorced Catholics who have been too often shamefully treated. This is a new spring and it feels terrific.

Contrast that with Bishop Robert Vasa who basically dares the pope to make any changes at all. Vasa has risen up the clerical ladder by using wedge issues to suppress those who disagree with his dogmatic stands on human sexuality. He prefers eternal winter in the church: frozen in time, immobilized by outdated science and psychology, unfriendly and unwelcoming except to the chosen few. The bishop may be able to pull a few flowers from the thawing ground, but he can't hold back the spring.

DAVID CARLSON

Santa Rosa

Re-elect SRJC trustees

EDITOR: Often when I read my sample ballot, as with many voters, I am unsure as to which candidates are the most qualified. In the case of the Santa Rosa Junior College trustees races this year, it's the easiest decision voters will make.

The three incumbent trustees -- Don Zumwalt, Kathleen Doyle and Bob Burdo -- are far and away the best choices. Over the years, they have helped build our local junior college into one of the finest in California, if not the nation, and they clearly deserve re- election.

Their challengers are inexperienced, and even their motives for running are very suspect. Based on who is supporting them, their prime motivation for running appears to be so they can vote for costly and discriminatory special labor deals on all Santa Rosa Junior College construction work.

If you plan to vote for Measure H and want the $400 million it will generate to be spent fairly and wisely, there are only three smart choices -- Zumwalt, Doyle and Burdo.

At SRJC in the years ahead, experience will matter more than ever.

KEITH WOODS

Santa Rosa

Wal-Mart superstore

EDITOR: As a candidate for the Rohnert Park city council, I was asked about my view of the Wal-Mart superstore. This was an odd question since the council had already approved the store over the objections of myself and many other citizens some four years ago. This type of action is consistent with other council actions where it seems that the decision was already made and citizen input is just a procedure with little value. Sound familiar?

Recently, a reliable source updated me on the Wal-Mart proposal. It seems that a lawsuit was filed and the original approval was set aside until a number of items including environmental issues could be addressed. It remains to be seen if the issues have been addressed. However, a new hearing may come about soon, probably after the election.

Don't expect any great announcement as the council tends to add these agenda items at the last minute, hoping to slide them through with little citizen input as they did with handing over our sewer capacity to the casino in June 2012.

Use the city website to monitor the agenda and spread the word. It's your city. Stay involved and vote.

DAVID GRUNDMAN

Rohnert Park

Ebola and gun politics

EDITOR: Why do we need an Ebola czar ("White House names czar to coordinate response," Saturday)? Isn't that a job for the surgeon general? The following is from Newsweek: "The problem is, the U.S. doesn't have a surgeon general. Last year, Obama nominated public health advocate Dr. Vivek Murthy to the position. But Republicans didn't like Murthy, who thinks gun violence is a public health issue. A year ago he tweeted, "Tired of politicians playing politics w/ guns, putting lives at risk b/c they're scared of NRA. Guns are a health care issue.

"That didn't go over well with the powerful gun lobby headed by the National Rifle Association, which opposed Murthy's nomination. Republicans who fear the NRA's wrath opposed Murthy's nomination, as did some red state Democrats."

KASSANDRA MILLER

Sonoma

Wrong message

EDITOR: Let me see if I get this right. We name bridges, streets, buildings and parks after people who have died in service, provided a great service to mankind or proved themselves to the nation that they are of incredible integrity. So now we have an unsupervised kid, modifying a toy gun to look just like the real thing, high on marijuana, waving the toy gun at a cop who ordered the kid to put the gun down, and he gets a park named after him? Tragedy of the accident aside, what is the message we are sending our children with this scenario? Are we teaching them law enforcement is here to help, or to be confronted?

JOHN WASHAM

Santa Rosa

Document SRPD000020141106eaao00003

Asda faces legal challenge over equal pay

135 words
24 October 2014
Drapers
DRPREC
English
© 2014, Emap Limited. All Rights Reserved.    

Asda is facing mass legal action by a group of mainly female workers in its stores, who claim they are not paid the same as the mostly male employees in its distribution warehouses.

Although the jobs are different, the women claim they are of equivalent value.

Law firm Leigh Day, which is leading the action, confirmed it is representing “hundreds of former and current employees of the supermarket chain, mostly female".

Asda said its clothing arm George was not involved. A spokeswoman added: “A firm of no win, no fee lawyers is hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer. We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend."

Document DRPREC0020141024eaao0002t



Asda test case could put retail sector in firing line over equal pay

316 words
24 October 2014
Retail Week
RETWEE
English
© 2014, Emap Limited. All Rights Reserved.      

Asda is facing mass legal action over equal pay by female store workers, and the outcome is expected to have implications for the whole sector.

The Asda store staff argue they are not paid the same as the male workers in Asda’s distribution centre, and claim that their jobs are of “equivalent value", according to the BBC.

The case will test how retailers pay employees in different parts of the business. As such, the outcome could have a massive impact on the whole retail sector.

Law firm Leigh Day is representing the former and current employees who are making the case. Leigh Day solicitor Michael Newman told Retail Week retailers including Sainsbury’s, Morrisons and Next could all face similar action if the Asda case is a success.

Leigh Day has been approached by 19,000 people following the announcement it is taking the legal action. If the case is successful workers will be entitled to six years’ worth of back pay to compensate for the difference in earnings, according to Leigh Day.

The law firm said the pay difference between shop and warehouse workers can sometimes be as much as £4 an hour.

The case will put the issue of equal pay between men and women in the spotlight.

Newman said: “In the supermarkets the checkout staff and shelf-stackers are mostly women. The people in the warehouses are pretty much all men. And, as a whole, the group that is mostly men getspaid more."

Asda is planning to fight the case.

An Asda spokesperson said: “A firm of no win, no fee lawyers is hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer.We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area, which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend."

Document RETWEE0020141025eaao00005



FINANCE
Asda may face mass legal claim over equal pay

By Alan Tovey      
363 words
24 October 2014
09:59 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.      

Supermarket chain Asda in firing line as law firm lines up thousands of claimants for equal pay case

Supermarket giant Asda could face mass legal action from tens of thousands of employees who claim they are underpaid compared with colleagues doing the similar work.

Legal firm Leigh Day said it had been approached by 19,000 people – mostly women – after it announced it was taking action against the retailer.

The legal business said the case centres around women employed in Asda’s stores being paid less than male colleagues doing a similar work in its distribution chain.

“In the supermarkets the check-out staff and shelf-stackers are mostly women,” said Michael Newman, an employment law specialist at Leigh Day. “The people in the warehouses are pretty much all men. And, as a whole, the group that is mostly men gets paid more.”

“Our investigations suggest that the jobs are pretty much the same, in that warehouse staff are responsible for taking items off shelves, putting them on pallets and loading them into lorries.

“In the supermarket, they do the reverse: taking the pallets off the lorries, unstacking them and putting the items on the shelves.

“Where the jobs are not similar, we still think they are of equal value.”

If Asda, which has 170,000 staff working across 370 stores and 23 depots, loses the claim it could be forced to pay staff the difference in wages going back six years.

Mr Newman added: “Although there have been huge advancements in equal pay within the public sector, there is still a long way to go in the private sector. Compulsory audits are the only way to make sure the gender pay gap is being narrowed.

“Until now cases simply have not been brought, so you still get very segregated workplaces.”

An Asda spoeksman said: "A firm of no-win, no-fee lawyers is hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer.

"We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend."

Document TELUK00020141024eaao003h1



BC-Business News Digest

2,880 words
23 October 2014
04:01 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2014.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.    

Business News at 5 p.m.

The supervisor is Richard Jacobsen (800-845-8450, ext. 1680). For photos, ext. 1900. For graphics and interactives, ext. 7636. Expanded AP content can be obtained from http://www.apexchange.com . For access to AP Exchange and other technical issues, contact customersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.

If you have questions about transmission of financial market listings, please call 800-3AP-STOX.

A selection of top photos can be found at: http://bit.ly/APTopPhotos  .

All times EDT.

—Adds: DUKE ELLINGTON-ROYALTIES, ARGENTINA-ECONOMY, DAIMLER-ALLEGATIONS, HIGH-TECH WAGE VIOLATIONS, SPORTS BETTING, EARNS-MICROSOFT-LIFTED BY CLOUD, AMAZON-BLUE CHRISTMAS

—Updates: SMART SPENDING-TOYS, FINANCIAL MARKETS

TOP STORIES:

EARNS-AIRLINES

DALLAS — As much as American drivers appreciate paying a nickel or a dime less for fuel, airline CEOs love the savings even more. Profits are soaring at the biggest U.S. airlines, and a chunk of credit goes to lower fuel costs. The airlines are also benefiting from continued strong travel demand and higher fares. Following strong third-quarter earnings, executives report strong bookings for holiday travel and say they see no signs that Ebola is scaring away travelers. By David Koenig. SENT: 860 words, photos. Incorporates AMERICAN AIRLINES-RESULTS, EARNS-SOUTHWEST AIRLINES, UNITED CONTINENTAL-RESULTS, which all moved separately.

With:

— FINANCIAL MARKETS — A combination of strong company earnings and encouraging economic reports, both in the U.S. and Europe, gives the stock market another day of solid gains. SENT: 720 words, photos.

MORTGAGE RATES

WASHINGTON — With mortgage rates sliding for a fifth straight week, the possibility of locking in a rate below 4 percent is tempting for consumers and could unleash a wave of refinancing. It may even convince some Americans to buy their first home. Yet there are limits to how far the wave can extend. Many homeowners already re-financed last year. And the overall housing market remains hampered by tight mortgage credit, rising home prices and stagnating incomes. By Marcy Gordon. SENT: 430 words. UPCOMING: 700 words by 5:30 p.m.

SMART SPENDING-TOYS

NEW YORK — Looking for one of the holiday season's hot toys? Or maybe you just want a deal? Toy sellers are increasingly catering to the time-starved, budget conscious shopper and making it easier for them to find the deals or the hottest toys with new features on websites or improved layouts in the toy aisle. And you can expect more bargains than last year. By Anne D'Innocenzio. SENT: 730 words, photos.

EUROPE-BANKS TEST

FRANKFURT, Germany — Europe's biggest banks are facing a day of judgment as the European Central Bank prepares to unveil the results of a yearlong search through the dark corners of their finances. It's a step that comes none too soon for the struggling economy of the 18-country eurozone. The results due Sunday will seek to identify banks that are too weak to lend to businesses or make it through another recession — and force them to strengthen their finances. The hope is that healthier banks would offer loans at cheaper rates, helping the economy. First, however, there could be days of market volatility as any banks that fail the review scramble to raise money or need bailouts. By David McHugh. SENT: 780 words, photos.

With:

— EUROPE-ECONOMY — A stronger than anticipated economic survey fails to inspire much optimism that the recovery in the 18-country eurozone and of France in particular would be anything but muted. SENT: 570 words.

MARKETS & ECONOMY:

UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS

WASHINGTON — The number of people applying for U.S. unemployment benefits rises last week after falling to a 14-year low the previous week. Despite the increase, weekly applications remain at historically low levels that suggest hiring is gaining steam. By Christopher S. Rugaber. SENT: 350 words, photo.

LEADING INDICATORS

WASHINGTON — A gauge designed to predict the economy's future health posts a solid increase in September after no gain in the previous month. By Martin Crutsinger. SENT: 270 words, photo.

INDUSTRY:

AIR BAG RECALL

DETROIT — Two U.S. senators are calling on regulators to issue a nationwide recall of cars with faulty air bags made by Takata Corp., questioning why automakers have been allowed to limit recalls to only certain locations with high humidity. Air bag inflators made by Takata can rupture, causing metal fragments to fly out in a crash. Safety advocates say the problem has caused four deaths and multiple injuries. By Tom Krisher. SENT: 520 words, photos. UPCOMING: 900 words by 5:30 p.m.

BRITAIN-TESCO

LONDON — The chairman of Tesco, the world's second-biggest retailer behind Walmart, announces his resignation amid an accounting scandal in which the company admitted it had overstated its projected profits. Richard Broadbent said he will step down once a successor is found while the company confirmed its financial troubles continued, with a 99 percent drop in first-half net income to 6 million pounds ($9.6 million). By Danica Kirka. SENT: 580 words, photo.

— COCA-COLA-PERSONNEL — Coca-Cola is naming a new chief marketing officer as the world's biggest soda maker works to boost flat soda sales. The Atlanta-based company says Marcos De Quinto, a company veteran, will replace Joe Tripodi starting Jan. 1. SENT: 330 words.

MIDTERM ELECTIONS-BALLOT MEASURES

WASHINGTON — Voters may not know it, but the millions of dollars paying for ads on ballot measures they will consider next month come from large companies and national advocacy groups. Many of the messages are tailored to defend or expand the business interests of companies such as Coca-Cola, Monsanto and ExxonMobil, yet few have their names in the ads. By Philip Elliot. SENT: 900 words, photos, glance.

With:

— MIDTERM ELECTIONS-BALLOT MEASURES-SUMMARY

— RUSSIA-TOTAL CEO KILLED — The plane carrying a top French oil executive and a crew of three was already in the air when it grazed a snowplow, just failing to avoid the fatal crash, Russian crash investigators say. SENT: 500 words, photo.

— CHIQUITA-SAFRA-CUTRALE — Brazilian companies Cutrale and Safra said they are again raising their bid for banana producer Chiquita, to $681 million — a day before Chiquita shareholders are expected to vote on a combination with Irish fruit importer Fyffes. SENT: 230 words.

— DAMAGED PLANES — A Delta Air Lines plane clipped wings with a smaller jet as the two were preparing to take off from Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport on Wednesday night. No one was injured in the incident. SENT: 220 words.

— PORTUGAL-TELECOM — A ban on the short-selling of Portugal Telecom shares helps the stock rebound following a plunge that analysts say leaves it vulnerable to a takeover bid. SENT: 130 words.

— HEALTH OVERHAUL-VERSION 2 —HealthCare.gov's simpler online application is being touted as a big win for consumers. But it can't be used by legal immigrants and naturalized U.S. citizens, who represent millions of potential new health insurance customers. SENT: 780 words, photo.

— HEALTH OVERHAUL-TAXPAYER INFORMATION — Federal investigators say the IRS and the states should improve how they protect the security of confidential tax information of people getting benefits under the 2010 health care law. SENT: 370 words.

— DUKE ELLINGTON-ROYALTIES — New York's highest court on Thursday sided with EMI in the music publisher's dispute with Duke Ellington's heirs, but acknowledged global industry consolidation has made contracts like his much more favorable to publishers. SENT: 440 words.

— DAIMLER-ALLEGATIONS — Oregon has expanded its investigation into discrimination at the Portland truck-making plant of German automotive giant Daimler AG after four more employees came forward with allegations of racial harassment. SENT: 130 words.

— SPORTS BETTING — Claims that New Jersey's plan to allow legal sports gambling violates federal law are meritless, the state wrote in a court filing in response to efforts by four major U.S. pro sports leagues and the NCAA to stop gambling from beginning this weekend. SENT: 410 words.

EARNINGS:

EARNS-GENERAL MOTORS

DETROIT — Big profits from rising SUV and truck sales in North America helped General Motors nearly double its third-quarter net profit and more than offset its struggles in Europe and South America. The automaker posted net income of $1.38 billion, or 81 cents per share, from July through September. It was the first quarter this year without significant charges for recalls. By Tom Krisher. SENT: 410 words, photo.

EARNS-MICROSOFT-LIFTED BY CLOUD

SAN FRANCISCO — Microsoft's latest earnings report shows CEO Satya Nadella is making progress in his push to embrace cloud computing. The company says that revenue from cloud services, including software delivered over the Internet, more than doubled in the last quarter. That helped lift quarterly profit and revenue above expectations. By Brandon Bailey. SENT: 250 words, photo. UPCOMING: 400 words by 6 p.m.

AMAZON-BLUE CHRISTMAS

NEW YORK — It might be a blue Christmas for Amazon. The world's largest retailer gives a disappointing forecast for the crucial holiday season. The company also reports a wider loss than analysts expected for the third quarter. Shares fall 10 percent in after-market trading. By Mae Anderson. SENT: 130 words, photo. UPCOMING: 400 words by 6 p.m.

— EARNS-SOUTHWEST AIRLINES — More passengers and lower fuel prices are pushing Southwest Airlines to record profits, and the airline expects an even bigger break at the gas pump this winter. SENT: 250 words, photo.

— EARNS-3M — Diversified manufacturer 3M's third-quarter net income rose 6 percent on higher revenue across all divisions. SENT: 230 words, photo.

— COMCAST-RESULTS — Comcast Corp.'s third-quarter net income jumps 50 percent in the third quarter, helped by a one-time tax settlement, growth in Internet subscribers and fewer defectors from its cable service. SENT: 550 words, photo.

— FINLAND-EARNS-NOKIA — Nokia appears to have turned around its fortunes after the sale of its ailing cellphone unit to Microsoft, reporting a third-quarter net profit of 747 million euros ($950 million), from a loss of 91 million euros a year earlier. Sales grew 13 percent. SENT: 520 words.

— EARNS-CATERPILLAR — Caterpillar's belt tightening pays off in the third quarter as the manufacturer easily beat Wall Street expectations and raised its outlook for the year. SENT: 300 words, photo.

— UNITED CONTINENTAL-RESULTS — United Airlines appears to be hitting its stride after struggling to make a 2010 merger pay off. The airline's formula is lower fuel prices and more revenue for every mile that passengers fly. SENT: 400 words, photo.

— AMERICAN AIRLINES-RESULTS — American Airlines Group repors third-quarter earnings of $942 million, topping Wall Street expectations. SENT: 300 words, photo.

— EARNS-UNION PACIFIC — Union Pacific delivers a 19 percent increase in its third-quarter profit as the railroad hauled 7 percent more freight and increased rates. SENT: 450 words, photo.

— SWITZERLAND-EARNS-CREDIT SUISSE — Credit Suisse's profits more than double in the third quarter as Switzerland's second-largest bank benefited from cost cutting, brisk business in emerging markets and the services it provides for wealthy clients. SENT: 310 words, photos.

— SKOREA-EARNS-HYUNDAI MOTOR — Hyundai Motor Co. says its profit sank nearly 30 percent for the July-September quarter, hurt by a stronger South Korean currency and weak sales growth in its home market. SENT: 370 words, photo.

— NETHERLANDS-UNILEVER — Unilever PLC, the maker of consumer products including Dove soaps, Lipton teas and Ben & Jerry's ice cream, says it saw price deflation in Europe's largest markets in the third quarter. SENT: 140 words.

— GERMANY-EARNS-DAIMLER — Automaker Daimler says its net earnings rose by nearly half in the third quarter as revenue rose 10 percent and the company booked a one-time gain from the sale of a stake in a maker of heavy-duty engines. SENT: 130 words.

— FRANCE-PERNOD RICARD — Pernod Ricard SA, maker of Absolut vodka and Martell cognac, returns to growth after Asian, Middle Eastern and African markets stemmed a monthslong slide, but sales in China continued to decline steeply. SENT: 130 words.

— FRANCE-KERING-SALES — Kering, the company Saint Laurent couture and Puma streetwear, says revenue grew 3.3 percent in the third quarter even as its Gucci brand continued to see sales slump. SENT: 140 words.

TECHNOLOGY & MEDIA:

CHINA-ZUCKERBERG

BEIJING — China may ban Facebook, but not its co-founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg, who delighted an audience of students in Beijing with a 30-minute chat in his recently learned Mandarin Chinese. There was no explicit discussion of China's ban on the social media site, which has been in place since 2009, though an indirect reference to it drew laughter during the question-and-answer session Wednesday at the prestigious Tsinghua University. By Didi Tang. SENT: 680 words, photos, video.

— HIGH-TECH WAGE VIOLATIONS — A Silicon Valley company is paying more than $43,000 in back wages and penalties after labor regulators found eight employees imported from India were being treated like they were in an overseas sweat shop while they were working on a special project in the U.S. SENT: 420 words.

INTERNATIONAL:

CLIMATE TALKS

WARSAW — European Union leaders meeting in Brussels to set their new greenhouse gas emissions plan are facing staunch opposition from coal-reliant Poland and other East European countries who say their economies would suffer from the new target. Poland says it's ready to veto the plan that would oblige the bloc's 28 states to jointly cut their greenhouse gas emissions to 40 percent below the 1990 levels by the year 2030. By Monika Scislowska and Mike Corder. SENT: 690 words, photo.

INDIA-ECONOMY

NEW DELHI — After months of criticism for not moving aggressively enough on promises of an economic overhaul, India's new prime minister announces a string of policies designed to kick-start Asia's third-largest economy. By Muneeza Naqvi. SENT: 870 words, photo.

— CHINA-MANUFACTURING — A gauge of the health of China's manufacturing industry inches higher in October but factory output was at a five-month low in a sign of slowing domestic and foreign demand. SENT: 190 words.

— SPAIN-UNEMPLOYMENT — Spain's unemployment rate drops to 23.7 percent in the third quarter from 24.5 percent in the previous three-month period thanks to a recovering economy and a bumper summer tourism season. SENT: 130 words.

— SWEDEN-BUDGET — Sweden's left-leaning government proposes raising taxes and welfare benefits and boosting military spending in its first budget bill since taking office after last month's election. That would reverse many reforms by the previous center-right government, which had trimmed Sweden's famously high taxes. SENT: 130 words.

— GLOBAL CORRUPTION — An anti-corruption watchdog says that several of the Group of 20 global economic powers are making little or no effort to enforce rules barring multinational companies from paying bribes abroad, and only Canada has improved significantly in the past year. SENT: 130 words.

— ARGENTINA-ECONOMY— Argentina began offering a new two-year sovereign bond for $1 billion on Thursday, at a time when the government is desperately looking for fresh sources of financing. SENT: 140 words.

PERSONAL FINANCE:

OF MUTUAL INTEREST-BOND FUND EXPECTATIONS

When stock markets around the world tumbled last week, bond mutual funds once again remained solid. So much money rushed into bonds in search of safety that the yield on the 10-year Treasury note at one point dropped below 2 percent. But it's important for anyone shifting money into bonds now to keep expectations in check. Yields are lower, risks are higher and it may be difficult for bonds to replicate what they've done so far this year. By Stan Choe. SENT: 950 words.

A sampling of Money & Markets modules is below. The full digest for AP's Money & Markets service can be found at markets.ap.org. For questions about Money & Markets content, please contact Trevor Delaney (800-845-8450, ext. 1807). For technical support: Todd Balog (816-654-1096). After 6 p.m., contact the AP Business News desk (800-845-8450, ext. 1680) for content questions; 1-800-3AP-STOX for technical support and 212-621-1905 for graphics help.

CENTERPIECE

Crude response

The descent of energy company earnings has been quick. A recovery won't be, analysts say. The plummeting price of oil is dragging down profits in the energy sector, home to some of the strongest earnings growth just a few months ago. Analysts believe the weakness will persist. In the fourth quarter, the energy sector is expected to be the only one of the 10 sectors of the S&P 500 to report a decline in earnings. UPCOMING: Graphic expected by 6 p.m.

COMPANY SPOTLIGHT

Caterpillar raises outlook

Shares of Caterpillar rise as the heavy equipment manufacturer raised its earnings guidance for the year and reported better-than-expected earnings. UPCOMING: Graphic expected by 6 p.m.

--------------------------------------------------------------

MONEY & MARKETS EXTRA

For the week ending Saturday, Oct. 25, 2014

CENTERPIECE

Home improvement?

Shares of Home Depot, Lowe's and Sherwin Williams all hit an all-time high Wednesday. What's the outlook for these stocks given that many expect the growth in home improvement spending to begin to slow down? UPCOMING: Graphic expected by 6 p.m.

Document APRS000020141023eaan002kd



WAL-MART STORES EAST WILL PAY $72,500 TO SETTLE EEOC DISABILITY    DISCRIMINATION  LAWSUIT

762 words
22 October 2014
US Fed News
INDFED
English
Copyright 2014. HT Media Limited. All rights reserved.      

BALTIMORE, Oct. 22 -- The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission issued the following press release:

Wal-Mart Stores East, L.P., will pay $72,500 and provide significant equitable relief to settle a federal disability discrimination lawsuit, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) announced today.

According to the EEOC's suit, an assistant store manager at the Walmart store in Cockeysville, Md., offered Laura Jones a job as an evening sales associate, contingent on Jones passing a urinalysis test for illegal drugs. After Jones advised that she cannot produce urine because she has end-stage renal disease, the assistant store manager told her to ask the designated drug testing company about alternate tests, the EEOC said. According to the complaint, Jones went to the drug testing facility the same day and learned that the facility could do other drug tests if the employer requested it. Jones relayed this information to the Walmart assistant store manager, but management refused to order an alternative drug test. Jones's application was closed for failing to take a urinalysis within 24 hours.

Such alleged conduct violates the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The EEOC filed suit (EEOC v. Wal-Mart Stores East, LP, Civil Action No. 1:14-cv-00862-JKB) in U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland, Baltimore Division, after first attempting to reach a voluntary pre-litigation settlement through its conciliation process.

In addition to providing $72,500 in monetary relief to Jones, the 30-month consent decree resolving this lawsuit provides substantial equitable relief, including enjoining Wal-Mart from taking any future adverse employment actions on the basis of disability and failing to provide reasonable accommodations. Wal-Mart will revise its applicant drug screen form to advise applicants that alternate drug screens will be available as a reasonable accommodation for applicants to whom a conditional offer of employment has been made in the Cockeysville store whose physical condition prevents them from producing urine and how to request a reasonable accommodation. Wal-Mart East shall provide training on the ADA and the revised drug screen form to its market and regional human resources directors, as well as to people with hiring responsibility at the Cockeysville store. The company will also furnish other remedial and preventive measures. Wal-Mart East will also post a notice regarding the resolution of this lawsuit.

"This is the fourth EEOC lawsuit alleging the employer failed to provide a reasonable accommodation and refused to hire a qualified applicant when the solution-to provide a blood drug test during the drug screening process-was simple," said EEOC Regional Attorney Debra M. Lawrence. "We are pleased that Wal-Mart East is providing targeted training and disseminating a memorandum on its drug screen policy, and hope that this settlement encourages all employers to review their hiring and post-offer drug screening procedures to ensure that qualified applicants are provided with needed reasonable accommodations."

EEOC Philadelphia District Director Spencer H. Lewis, Jr. added, "Most reasonable accommodations required under the ADA are free or inexpensive, such as this case, where the accommodation needed was an easy fix-the employer just has to offer alternative tests, such as a blood test, for applicants who need it for medical reasons."

Other EEOC lawsuits involving this issue are: EEOC v. Kmart Corporation; Sears Holdings Management Corporation; Sears Holding Corporation, filed in U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland (Civil Action No. 13-cv-02576), EEOC v. Fort Worth Center of Rehabilitation, filed in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas (Civil Action No. 3:13-cv-1736), which settled for $30,000 and equitable relief, and EEOC v. G2 Secure Staff, LLC, (Civil Action No. 5:11-cv-475), filed in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District for North Carolina, which settled for $30,000 and equitable relief.

Wal-Mart Stores East, L.P., of Bentonville, Ark., operates Wal-Mart's retail stores in the Eastern United States.

The Philadelphia District Office of the EEOC oversees Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware, West Virginia and parts of New Jersey and Ohio. The legal staff of the Philadelphia District Office of the EEOC also prosecutes discrimination cases arising from Washington, D.C. and parts of Virginia.

The EEOC enforces federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination. Further information about the Commission is available at its website, www.eeoc.gov

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com      

Document INDFED0020141025eaam0043a

Wal-Mart Stores East Will Pay to $72,500 to Settle EEOC Disability    Discrimination  Lawsuit

766 words
22 October 2014
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Documents
EEOD
English
Copyright © 2014 Federal Information & News Dispatch, Inc.      

Press Releases and Statements

10-22-14

Wal-Mart Stores East Will Pay to $72,500 to Settle EEOC Disability Discrimination Lawsuit

Retailer Refused to Reasonably Accommodate Applicant With End-Stage Renal Disease, Federal Agency Charged

BALTIMORE - Wal-Mart Stores East, L.P., will pay $72,500 and provide significant equitable relief to settle a federal disability discrimination lawsuit, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) announced today.

According to the EEOC's suit, an assistant store manager at the Walmart store in Cockeysville, Md., offered Laura Jones a job as an evening sales associate, contingent on Jones passing a urinalysis test for illegal drugs. After Jones advised that she cannot produce urine because she has end-stage renal disease, the assistant store manager told her to ask the designated drug testing company about alternate tests, the EEOC said. According to the complaint, Jones went to the drug testing facility the same day and learned that the facility could do other drug tests if the employer requested it. Jones relayed this information to the Walmart assistant store manager, but management refused to order an alternative drug test. Jones's application was closed for failing to take a urinalysis within 24 hours.

Such alleged conduct violates the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The EEOC filed suit (EEOC v. Wal-Mart Stores East, LP, Civil Action No. 1: 14-cv-00862-JKB) in U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland, Baltimore Division, after first attempting to reach a voluntary pre-litigation settlement through its conciliation process.

In addition to providing $72,500 in monetary relief to Jones, the 30-month consent decree resolving this lawsuit provides substantial equitable relief, including enjoining Wal-Mart from taking any future adverse employment actions on the basis of disability and failing to provide reasonable accommodations. Wal-Mart will revise its applicant drug screen form to advise applicants that alternate drug screens will be available as a reasonable accommodation for applicants to whom a conditional offer of employment has been made in the Cockeysville store whose physical condition prevents them from producing urine and how to request a reasonable accommodation. Wal-Mart East shall provide training on the ADA and the revised drug screen form to its market and regional human resources directors, as well as to people with hiring responsibility at the Cockeysville store. The company will also furnish other remedial and preventive measures. Wal-Mart East will also post a notice regarding the resolution of this lawsuit.

"This is the fourth EEOC lawsuit alleging the employer failed to provide a reasonable accommodation and refused to hire a qualified applicant when the solution-to provide a blood drug test during the drug screening process-was simple," said EEOC Regional Attorney Debra M. Lawrence. "We are pleased that Wal-Mart East is providing targeted training and disseminating a memorandum on its drug screen policy, and hope that this settlement encourages all employers to review their hiring and post-offer drug screening procedures to ensure that qualified applicants are provided with needed reasonable accommodations."

EEOC Philadelphia District Director Spencer H. Lewis, Jr. added, "Most reasonable accommodations required under the ADA are free or inexpensive, such as this case, where the accommodation needed was an easy fix-the employer just has to offer alternative tests, such as a blood test, for applicants who need it for medical reasons."

Other EEOC lawsuits involving this issue are: EEOC v. Kmart Corporation; Sears Holdings Management Corporation; Sears Holding Corporation, filed in U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland (Civil Action No. 13-cv-02576), EEOC v. Fort Worth Center of Rehabilitation, filed in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas (Civil Action No. 3: 13-cv-1736), which settled for $30,000 and equitable relief, and EEOC v. G2 Secure Staff, LLC, (Civil Action No. 5: 11-cv-475), filed in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District for North Carolina, which settled for $30,000 and equitable relief.

Wal-Mart Stores East, L.P., of Bentonville, Ark., operates Wal-Mart's retail stores in the Eastern United States.

The Philadelphia District Office of the EEOC oversees Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware, West Virginia and parts of New Jersey and Ohio. The legal staff of the Philadelphia District Office of the EEOC also prosecutes discrimination cases arising from Washington, D.C. and parts of Virginia.

The EEOC enforces federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination. Further information about the Commission is available at its website, www.eeoc.gov

Document EEOD000020141023eaam00002



The 21st Annual Meeting for the Investment Community - Final

64,191 words
15 October 2014
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
© 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.      

Presentation

CLAIRE BABINEAUX-FONTENOT, TREASURER, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Good morning, I'm Claire Babineaux-Fontenot, Treasurer for Wal-Mart Stores, Incorporated and I'm pleased to welcome you to our 21st annual meeting with the investment community.

We sincerely appreciate your interest in our business and we thank you for being here. As is customary in these meetings, we will be making forward-looking statements. I ask you to please take a look at the information behind me or you may view this same information which is posted on our website.

As you can see, we have a full day planned for you. There's two things I'd like to note about today's agenda so first, the common thread that will flow through all of the presentations is our clear focus on the customer.

You'll see that focus in our US presentations and you'll also see that focus across all of our formats in every country in which we operate. Also, you'll see and it'll be clear that fundamental to our strategies of seamlessly integrating digital and physical retail is our understanding of the evolution of our customer.

As that customer grows, as that customer's interests change, we will be evolving and growing with those interests. Another point is different than the way that we've done this in the past, this year, the capital presentations rather than having you go through each of those presentations separately and figure out what our capital plans are through the course of each individual presentation, this year, Charles Holley, our CFO will provide you with the overall view of our capital plans in his presentation.

So, let's get started. With no further ado I'd like to introduce our President and CEO, Mr. Doug McMillon.

DOUG MCMILLON, PRESIDENT, CEO, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Good morning, thank you, Claire.

We want to start by just thanking all of you for being here. We really appreciate you taking the effort to make the trip and investing your time in learning more about Wal-Mart and we put a lot of preparation into this morning. I think you'll find a lot of benefit from it.

It's been an eventful year. I have been spending my time getting around and getting into stores. I've been in a lot of US markets; have been back to China; to the U.K. a couple times; was in Canada a couple of weeks ago where I saw some great merchandise, Shelley.

I've been to Silicon Valley to see Neil five times so far this year. He threatened to get me an apartment. I don't think I need that but I will be back in a few weeks, Neil. I've been kind of soaking it in talking to our associates; talking about the future; listening to a lot of smart people help me think about what the future of Wal-Mart looks like.

And one thing I'd like for you to know is that I really believe our future is bright. I'm excited about where retail is going to go and about where Wal-Mart's going to go. There are so many new ideas percolating around about what we can do with our business and today we've got more new tools and tools to help us serve customers in a way that will surprise and delight them.

So this morning, I want to spend a bit of time talking to you about where we are and right now talk about where we're going. And as it relates to the future of Wal-Mart and maybe to some extent, the future of retail, I want to talk to you about it through the lens of the customer. And I'd like to break it into four dimensions: Price, assortment, experience and access.

You could put experience and access together as service but we want to talk about those individually today because we think they're both important. So as it relates to assortment, today our customers want more choice; more items; more assortment then they ever did before.

And they expect from us to be able to find almost anything. When I was growing up, my mom and people who shopped at Wal-Mart would say things like, "If Wal-Mart doesn't have it I don't need it." That population of items in a supercenter was about 120,000 SKUs but in today's world with what's happened with the internet and with mobile and with technology, that thing's just been blown up and what assortment looks like is very different than what it looked like in the past.

So what we've got to do right now is we've got to expand our assortment and we're doing that. So first party, third party inventory online is growing because we want customers to know they can come to us and they can find almost anything. That's how they want to feel. Now, over time, I'll bet you that curation and editing still matter and that being a merchant still matters.

The art and science of merchandising will matter 25 years from now and having a sense for where customers are going; having an ability to pick a color; having an ability to merchandise it digitally as well as physically will matter.

We have always been known for assortment and in the future, we'll be known for assortment. It's an important dimension. Secondly, I want to talk to you about price. Price matters. We serve value conscious customers all over the world. Everybody wants to save money. They come from all walks of life; high income, low income.

Some of the wealthiest people in the world became wealthy because they knew how to save money. Value matters and we have EDLC in our DNA; it's in our core. We care about expense leverage. We care about expense management and we always will. This purpose that we have as a company of saving people money so they can live better is real and it matters to us.

It's one of the things that gets us up every day. We believe in saving customers money so that they can take those savings and invest in whatever they would like; whether it's an education or just making the rent or going on a vacation in the summertime. Those enjoyable parts of life and those important parts of life, customers need to be able to take advantage of and we play a role in helping them do that by keeping our costs down and passing it on to the customer.

We have been the price leader and we will be a price leader across a broad basket of goods in the future. We are committed to price. Let's talk about experience. Customer service. Retail has been a people business and retail will be a people business.

How a customer gets treated matters. We talk about serving customers and frequently think about how Sam Walton did it and how he modeled it for the rest of us and even though he passed away in 1992, even today, you'll see little glimpses of Sam Walton in our associates in the way that they interact with customers in the stores.

I still get great customer letters and some great stories about how our associates have exceeded their expectations. Human relationships matter. As we look forward, our associates though will be changing how they serve customers. They'll be more equipped; will use information to be able to prepare them and technology to be able to prepare them to exceed customer expectations in different ways.

The way the check-out process works is going to change; mobile will have a huge impact. Our data scientists, our engineers will play a role in customer service. They'll invent new ways for us to save people time and money. And customers will have an experience at Wal-Mart that exceeds their expectations. That's always been our goal and that'll be our goal going forward.

This fourth dimension is interesting, access. What does it mean? Well digitally the customer can access our brand around the world in different ways than they used to. Through the website and increasingly through a mobile app, they can access Wal-Mart and our various brands around the world.

But physical access is also changing. Today, not only can a customer buy an item in a store but they can order it online for delivery for their home or for various categories of merchandise; not all of them, but most of them and tomorrow we'll provide more convenient store pick-up capabilities and have delivery for all product categories where the economics work.

Our pick-up and delivery experience from several markets is encouraging and we see a lot of potential because customers want to save time. Everyone is busy. Time is a currency and we can help customers given our locations and our supply chain better than anyone else.

Convenience means different things to different customers at different times. Sometimes getting something delivered to your home is convenient but other times it's not convenient at all. Sometimes customers want to shop in a store; other times a pick-up experience is more convenient.

We'll give customers the choices they want and need by integrating digital and physical retail in ways that please and energize them. There's a growing consensus that the future of retail is not just in-store or online. The winners in retail will be the ones that can put them together and frankly, we think we've done the harder part.

Locations matter because convenience matters. We have the stores, the associates, and the expertise in a physical world that others are going to need to build out. But to capture the upside of our strategic advantages, we need to develop a more seamless relationship with our customers; that's one of the reasons why data matters so much.

See, we won't just be a store on the street. We'll support our customers' lives with them in the driver's seat to save them time and money in new ways and we'll win as a business through the combination of our offerings across these four dimensions.

The future looks bright if we make the necessary changes and move with an appropriate speed and I know that we will. So let me take a minute to talk to you about the state of the company today. We're in 27 countries; over 250 million customers; 2.2 million associates. Financially, we're growing. We added $7.5 billion in net sales last year.

We generated more than $10 billion in free cash flow. We've returned more than $100 billion to shareholders over the last 10 years; two would have been better but over the last 10 years in dividends and share repurchase. This is a record that we're really proud of.

And not only does this company have a strong track record financially, but with this meaningful purpose and this very real culture, we see an opportunity to do even more for the communities that we serve around the world.

And this servant leadership culture that permeates our DNA is important to us and so when it comes to matters like integrity, our company was founded on integrity and while we've done some great things that I'm really proud of with compliance over the last few years which is really important as it relates to building trust with stakeholders and we're committed to that, we go beyond it.

We're interested in sustainability. We're interested in using the size of the company to do good around the world so our minds are open to what we can do in areas like hunger or what we do today with disaster relief around the world to help people. It's an important part of who we are and you can count on us to continue to look for opportunities to make a bigger difference.

One of the places where we want to be important for people is in the area of jobs and opportunity. We've got a lot of associates. We've got a lot of jobs and if you want to get started in business and see what you can make of yourself, Wal-Mart's a great place to be.

In the US last year, we promoted 170,000 people; 170,000 people got a promotion and 40% of those were in their first year. We create this ladder of opportunity. I was one of the people and many of the Wal-Mart leaders in the room here today are some of the people who took a chance, got on that Wal-Mart ladder and have over the years been able to climb up and take on greater responsibilities.

I really believe in that purpose for Wal-Mart and the idea of creating a meritocracy where people can excel and do things they never imagined. As it relates to our leadership team, here's a picture of my direct report group. We call them the executive council. It's a strong team. They're deep in experience. In fact, this group along with myself has got over 150 years of retail experience; more than that in just general business experience.

We look pretty good considering, don't you think? Look at that smile on Cheesewright's face. You don't see that very often; keep that one. Not only do we have the experience but we've got passion. Now this year has been a really great year and we've been talking about our strategy going forward and coming together as a team and with Greg and Dave and I being new in role, I think we kind of all took that opportunity to take a fresh look at what we want to be going forward.

So in the past we had strategies that rolled up from markets to countries. In fact, if you go way back, the way we run this company has been bottoms up and we you know pushed down decision-making as much as we could to department managers and stores and they ran store within a store which I deeply believe in still to this day and that process played through to our strategy where the markets and the segments developed their plans and we allocated the capital and we went about execution.

This year we took a different approach. We stepped back, went through a process of looking at a lot of information internally and externally and thinking about what the enterprise needed to look like in the future. And the fact that the internet and mobile and technology have become global, has caused the world to change.

Our competitive position has changed. The unity that we have across markets is different because we're all facing some of the same trends and foundational changes so it made sense to take an enterprise wide approach. So we broke it into pieces. The first piece was what we called where to play where we thought about what businesses we want to be in, products, services, which countries, which formats, things like that.

And the second piece was how to win and we really focused on our customer proposition and what it was that we thought we could bring to market which led to the four dimensions that I spoke to you about earlier. The strategy going forward informs our capital allocation and how much we invest in total.

We'll change the mix of our capital spend through reductions in areas where we've historically invested so that we can fund new growth opportunities. And that enterprise strategy work had to be done so that we could allocate capital in that way, a little longer term, thinking more about where we're going to be positioned with our customer, getting ready for a transformation so that we position this company to be ready for the next 50 years.

So today, we're older than 50 and we've become large and if you study retail history you know that retailers come and go and we're going to defy that historic cycle that retailers go through by being thoughtful enough about how we position ourselves for the future and embrace change and be willing to cannibalize ourselves if we need to be so that we can set the stage for the future.

And yes, that'll put some short-term pressure on the company but we believe that you and others will support it as long as you understand the strategy, you know why we're doing it and we do a sufficient job of answering your questions about it.

So we're going to invest a bit less than we would have in stores. We're going to invest more in Ecommerce and overall the capital range that Charles is going to share with you a little later today will be slightly lower than last year's but with a mix difference towards more Ecommerce dollars.

In previous years, you've heard us speak to the financial priorities of growth, leverage and returns and I want to clarify where we are right now because we are in this period of transformation. As we pivot towards the future, growth is our top priority. If we're not relevant for customers, nothing else matters.

So we're always going to work to achieve leverage. You don't have to worry about us putting processes in place that make us more efficient or watching our travel costs. We just do that habitually. We will manage cost but the best way to deliver leverage over time is by growing sales.

These things have to work together. You want growth and returns. So do we. But for now, growth is our focus. Our core business will continue to have great returns and we believe the investments that we're making in Ecommerce will help returns over the long term. And don't just think of those investments as being pure Ecommerce but also have this mindset around how the whole thing comes together.

I mean we've managed margin mix across categories for more than 50 years. We're just managing a portfolio of revenue and costs and investments just as we've done in the past; same concept. Now, improving our short-term performance right now is a priority for us across all of our business segments.

The future is important and we will be positioned for the future but in some of those areas, the dollars don't move the total and if we don't deliver our short-term performance, nothing else matters. So let me talk to you a little bit about what that means by segment with kind of a short-term mindset.

In Wal-Mart US we have room to improve and we took leverage a bit too far. Those of you that have watched Wal-Mart for years, you know sometimes we laugh about going ditch to ditch and it's because we do it. Now, when we get focused on something, we deliver it.

And a few years ago, you told us and we agreed that we had to bend the cost curve and get after leverage so we went and did that. But it's a time right now where we need to make sure we're adjusting and in the Wal-Mart US supercenters, what that means is there are places where we need to put more hours in the store and there are places where we need to make price investments.

When I'm in stores and I go into our stores on a surprise basis, almost all the time and every time I get a chance because I absolutely have to see reality, we have room to improve on in-stock on the shelf. We have room to improve on our check-outs. Sometimes people ask me, "What will it take to grow a business that's almost $500 billion?"

In fact, one of you asked me that last night and my answer is, "I don't know how to do that but every store I go in has room to improve." I mean I could take you to stores right now and take our yellow pad and we could walk out of that store with a list of things that we can go do better. And if we nail those, one store at a time, our short-term performance gets better in Wal-Mart US

So Greg's new in his role and he and the team are sorting out all the variables and deciding where we want to go invest. It won't happen overnight but we're going to start putting some things in place that we believe will get that productivity loop spinning and then we'll get the sales number going and I know that that's important. We're willing to do what it takes to make that happen.

Now there are some things that are in our favor right now. Low fuel prices. Sometimes we've talked to you in the past about the pressure that our customers are feeling with fuel. That's in our favor right now. We see some of our competitive -- our competition's results and they're good.

There's no excuse for us not to be doing better than we are currently in our retail business in the United States. Sure we have some headwinds; healthcare's a real issue; SNAP from the past was a real issue. Those are legitimate but bottom line is we can go in stores and we can see areas where we can improve so we're committed to getting the US supercenter comps to a positive level in a sustainable way.

Neighborhood markets continue to be a bright spot. Customers like the convenience of that supermarket trip and we offer a great value in our neighborhood markets. We're going to build more. Now, as Greg moved into his role knowing how much passion and experience he has with fresh food and some of the ideas that Judith and Gisel and Duncan and others have about what we could do with neighborhood markets, I want us to be judicious about how many we grow next year because I'd like to give this team a chance to put their fingerprints on it.

I think the neighborhood market could be even better so we'll share with you today how many we're going to go build and I think it's an appropriate number but I believe that format can become even stronger. Before we end up with thousands of them, I want to make sure that we've got that right.

So Wal-Mart US has some positive things going on and a lot of levers to pull and Greg and the team will give you an update on that in just a minute. In international Dave hit the ground running. With his experience in Canada and his experience in EMEA, it didn't take him long at all to come up to speed on Latin America and Asia.

He's got a strategic mindset. He builds strong teams. I really like how he's thinking about the division. It's been fun to watch him do it and I look forward to seeing what he's going to do with it. He's decisive and he'll give you updates on how he feels about the business in just a little bit.

In Sam's Club, you've already seen Roz and her team make some bold changes. They changed membership rewards. They changed the credit offerings. Last year, she made a move to address our cost structure and position ourselves for the future. We've got some merchandising areas that are looking really strong and she and the team are working together to bring it all together to improve our performance in Sam's Club and I know she's got a good update for you as well.

In Ecommerce, some cool things going on. The building out of this platform that we've been working on and updating you on has continued. A lot of that work has been behind the scenes but recently some of our US customers have gotten to see it. Neil will tell you about that. The global technology platform is important and an enabler for many other things. We've been investing and we'll continue to invest in the supply chain to support Ecommerce. We're broadening our assortment; just a lot of good tools being developed within our Ecommerce team.

There's real momentum there. And I'm also excited about the fact that the shape of our board of directors is changing. You may have heard recently Kevin Systrom was our latest new addition. Kevin was one of the co-founders of Instagram. He's like 30 years old which is interesting. What an amazing accomplishment on his part.

But as he thinks about the future of business and contributes to our board along with all the other board members that we've got, they're an important part of the equation for us to get this repositioning right. It's actually fun. It's been a great year to talk though some of those things.

And so, in closing, I hope you'll take away three key points. First, we're going to position ourselves to do an even better job serving customers. We can do a better job. We can create a customer proposition through the combination of what we do with price, assortment, access and experience.

We'll save them money and time. We know how to win. Second, our priority is growth. Driving demand is the only sustainable way to deliver returns over time. And finally, we'll manage capital in a disciplined thoughtful manner. We'll make choices. We recognize our situation has changed and we're responding accordingly.

As we have many times before, we'll find a way to exceed our customers' expectations and as a result, we will win the new era of retail. It's an incredible opportunity that's here in front of us and we're going to seize it. So, I'll be back up later this afternoon to answer questions that you have and I hope you get a lot from today.

Before I sit down, I want to ask Greg to come up here. We're going to transition to Wal-Mart, US. This is Greg Foran and Greg and I first met six or seven years ago. I went to Australia and was lucky enough to spend a week following this guy around visiting stores, going to competitions, even sat in some of his P&L meetings and learned a lot about him as a leader and then a few years ago, we were able to attract him to our business and he's been leading our Wal-Mart business in China and done an outstanding job.

For those of you that don't know, there's a connection between Wal-Mart and Woolworth's that goes way back. Jack Shoemaker who was our president spent a lot of time in Australia in influencing the Woolworth's business and Roger Corbett who was the CEO of Woolworth's is now on our board of directors.

And so, when Greg and I first met and as we've walked stores around the world, we have a common vocabulary and a common view of the business. He's a merchant. He's an operator. He's a strong leader of people and I'm really looking forward to seeing what he's going to do with Wal-Mart US. Would you please welcome Greg. Good morning.

GREG FORAN, PRESIDENT AND CEO WAL-MART US, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Good morning and thanks, Doug.

You know, I'm really excited to be here this morning, it was terrific, Carol, to go along to the event last night and to get to meet some of you and then this morning, over breakfast to have some further chats.

It is just a great opportunity.

You know, as a lifelong retailer, the opportunity to do the gig, the job that I'm doing now is just sort of something that I never dreamed would happen. There is no doubt that for many of us who haven't grown up in the US, when you look at the US, you see Wal-Mart US as really the standard bearer of excellence in this business.

In many ways, I really feel like this is a job that I have sort of had an opportunity to prepare for for my whole life. For some of you who don't know me, I actually started in retail about 35 years ago. My very first job was after school as a 15 year old, as a night stock fellow. A job that many of our associates still do today. And that was in a business called Woolworths, a different Woolworths to the Woolworth's that operated here in the US, it has an S on the end, and I actually had the opportunity of running my first store at the age of 19.

After about 20 years in the New Zealand business, I moved to Australia, took the chance, and went across as they colloquially call it, The Ditch, and worked in a business there and had an opportunity to work in general merchandise, consumer electronics, and supermarkets.

And then as Doug just mentioned, to be in China the last two and a half years is something I never ever thought would happen, but boy, what a learning experience for me.

You know, each business that I have been in has been different and each country is different. You know, in a place like New Zealand, some of you may be surprised to know that we were doing grocery home shopping there in the mid-1990s.

So you can imagine how much of an integral part of -- it is in the business today when you have been doing it for over 20 years in New Zealand.

In China, getting up to speed with some of the things that were happening with Alibaba and Jingdong has been another interesting experience for me. However, in all of those jobs, in each of those countries, I can tell you that I have found certain principles that actually transcend all borders and cultures.

And in fact, I have said to Doug a number of times when he visited me in China, there are actually more things that are the same than there are that are different, so I found that to be an interesting learning experience for me. I know a bit about retail, I know a bit about customers, but you know, I've still got a lot to learn about the US.

So I have been out in stores, listening to our customers, listening to our associates, and I look forward to learning from all of you and getting to know you. As investors and shareholders, you are also customers in our stores and you also study our competitors, other retailers, and I want to hear from you about how we stack up.

The way that I look at our business is that we have many moments of truth. So what do I mean by that? You know, when a customer decides to go shopping and they go out of their driveway, they can turn left and go to Wal-Mart or they can turn right and go to a competitor.

If they turn left and they head to Wal-Mart, how easy was it to turn into the parking lot. When they got out of the car, and they got to the store, could they find a trolley? Were the wheels wonky and or did they work properly? As they entered the store, what did they see? Were we seasonally relevant, did we have the Gala apples out there? Did we have Golden Delicious? Was the price right? Were they merchandised appropriately? Could they get everything that they wanted when they shopped?

All moments of truth, and of course, the big one is when you go through the checkouts at the end, was it fast? Was it efficient, was it friendly? And no doubt, many of you can think of your own moments of truth when you shop in our stores.

And these are key moments because I have learned over the years that when we get them right, we gain the trust of the customer and with that, advocacy. So every moment counts. Now customers are changing rapidly, they want to shop whenever and however. And we've got to move quickly to serve them with our 1.2 million associates and a great leadership team that is going to enable us to meet their rising expectations.

And I'm fortunate to have my team with me today, and they bring unparalleled passion and experience for the customer. Some of them you know, Duncan, Gisel, Chris, and Kristen. Others, are new in their roles.

Judith who will be up here in a minute has moved over from International prior to that, Asda where she was a COO-CFO, and she is our chief development officer. Jeff, many of you will know, moved over from the treasury role, is now the CFO.

Michael, previously ran our West business unit, and he has now taken on the role as the COO of Walmart.com, reports directly to Neil, but has a real close relationship with our team.

I have also taken on some additional direct reports, Pam in real estate, and Stephen in marketing. They now report direct to me.

Today, I'm going to take you through some of the first impressions I have of our business and the opportunities to ensure that our customers' needs are met now today.

This will include what's happening over the really important holiday season and then we'll take a look at how we're investing in the new future of retail and how we are looking at things moving forward.

So to start, Wal-Mart US has many fundamental strengths, a distinct national footprint, over 4,000 stores. Everyday low prices sets us apart and I can tell we have an unparalleled obsession with everyday low cost.

1.2 million associates, our secret sauce, are the cornerstone of our success and innovation and risk taking are part of our DNA. I'm learning more. Let me share with you how I've spent my time during the last few weeks.

The first week I had on the job was in August at our holiday meeting in Denver. My first opportunity to meet the store managers, the market managers and many other merchants, about 5,000 of our associates in total.

It was a terrific meeting and Duncan and Gisel did a fantastic job of getting the team motivated and enthusiastic for the coming months. As a leader, I place a great deal of value on candor. I often refer to it as unvarnished.

At the holiday meeting, I took the opportunity of asking all our store managers and market managers to share with me in an email three ideas on how they thought we could improve our sales during the holiday season and also areas where they felt we had been cutting muscle instead of fat.

You know, the response that we got back was pretty incredible. I've had over 3,000 emails which is an interesting thing, Neil, to wake up to in the morning and deal with 263 that have come in overnight. But I took the opportunity to read them all and I have personally responded to every single one of them.

I can tell you that there's been three things that have occurred. The first thing is there is a sense of energy out there in our stores because they felt they had a voice and they felt it's being heard.

The second thing is, boy, did I learn some things pretty quickly in this business. I think I could have been here for three years and not found out about some things that we were doing in our business.

And the third point which has been important is that we are actually able to take some action pretty quickly on fixing a few things. The same time we did that, we've got a pretty thorough diagnostic review under way in the business or as I call it an unvarnished appraisal.

So we're digging in deep, understanding exactly what's happening. You know, I also love getting out around stores and I do really love getting out around the stores. So over the last few weeks, I've taken the opportunity with my team and also with quite a few of Duncan's buyers to jump on a plane and head off.

So first visit off to Springfield, Missouri. Few days later, we headed off to Dallas. We've been to Atlanta. I've taken the opportunity with Chris to get to the three of DCs down in Texas the other day. Last weekend, I was up in Grand Rapids and then we shot across to Detroit on Sunday.

It's good for me to see what's happening in the store. I see them unvarnished and sometimes like you do, Doug, in other cases, people know I'm coming but it's great. I get an opportunity to learn, to teach and to take action.

We've changed some of the cadence of some of the meetings that we're doing in the business already. Many of you will know that we've always had a Friday meeting, pretty important day for us, something that Sam put in place I guess many years ago.

Why is it important? We talk about what we're going to do Saturday and Sunday, busiest days of the week. So we get some urgency in. What can we do to get those sales going Saturday and Sunday. On Monday, we sit down and we review the week that was, what worked, what didn't, what can we do better.

So what am I seeing today right now in the business? Well, first of all, number one, the productivity loop is still part of the DNA and I think that's good.

Secondly, we're expanding our footprint. We got multiple formats out there, different sizes of supercenters, dropped into a Proto 70 the other day on my way back from Atlanta and we've got big ones. So different size of supercenters, neighborhood markets.

Three, we're expanding brands. Really pleased with what I saw not just at the holiday meeting but how some of these brands are starting to come on life in store whether it's Avia in footwear, whether it's Russell Athletic in our sports apparel. I think we should also go wild over Wild Oats. I'm liking what I'm seeing in terms of an opportunity around private label.

We've made great progress on creating opportunity in communities. So I think most of you know about the initiative around US manufacturing and Michelle and her team were working on that yesterday or veteran hiring. And as well as that we're listening and hearing lots from our associates on how we can provide clear pathways to their development and advancement but we've got more to do.

Fifthly, innovative programs. I was walking stores the other day and managers were showing me on their own handheld devices some of the wonderful things they can do to get sales for their store, stores in the community. But I can tell you one thing that I always get approached on whenever I hit a store at the moment the Savings Catcher. So Duncan I'm going to leave that one to you to chat to everyone about in a minute.

And, of course, we are pressing hard on digital and physical integration. So whether it's Wal-Mart Pickup Grocery in the grocery. These things are going well in the business where we're talking about them, there's things happening. We're going to continue to invest and you're going to hear a lot more from Judith and Neil during the day.

Our first half was pretty challenging. Net sales up 2.3% or $3.2 billion in flat comp. We have to improve traffic and that's got my full attention. We are seeing improvement in soft lines but consumables and general merchandises are still under pressure.

GP is pressured mostly by product mix. There's some price investment in meat, dairy and deli. Operating expenses, we have been purposeful not to overextend wage leverage.

As Doug mentioned, we've also had significant headwinds with healthcare cost and that's driven primarily around enrollments being up. And then finally, utilities were quite tough during the first half of the year as we dealt with some pretty adverse weather conditions.

So operating income is down and inventory growing at twice the rate of sales. So we've got opportunities and that's the fun of retail. I never finish a day with less things to do on the list than what I had when I started and retail is detail.

My first focus is on improving the core business, the stores, driving same store sales. I'm encouraged by the positive comps I'm seeing in neighborhood markets. Customers do love the convenience and the format appeals to all of our customers and there's no doubt that pharmacy is a great traffic driver but we've still got opportunity in neighborhood markets.

And the discussions that Judith and I and others have been having as we walk those stores is let's look at what we're doing in deli, let's look at what we're doing in bakery, let's look at that core assortment in grocery. I know that by leaning in there and getting into the detail, we can improve that offer.

We'll grow our store count next year around 180 to 200 in neighborhood markets and the focus, as it always should be on any new store, has got to be on quality not quantity. Supercenters should also be delivering positive comps. Can't turn this ship around overnight but this is a focus and we are after it.

We will continue to own the stock up through. It's always going to be an incredibly important occasion for our customers. We'll moderate our growth of supercenters next year. We plan to build 60 to 70 and that includes conversions.

We'll be thoughtful about that growth again focusing on quality not quantity. We need to make sure that we exceed our customers' expectations in these big boxes and it's important for us to really think about these big boxes, how it looks, how it performs, what departments we grow, which ones we can track, what services we add, how do we get close to some of the things that Neil and his team is doing in the dotcom space.

We've got to do things that our customers haven't even thought of yet. As well as that we've identified some priorities that we are focusing on right now. We call that our urgent agenda items and we are executing against these. We're leaning in pretty hard.

As we work through these I can tell you that we're also identifying emerging initiatives that we'll test and we'll consider. Just briefly about these urgent agenda items, four that I'll share with you at the moment, markdowns in inventory damages.

You can imagine in a business like ours, they can be pretty large numbers. We need to tighten some of our procedures and processes around these. Secondly, inventory. I mentioned previously growing at twice the rate of sales.

So we're starting to have a look at what are our processes and procedures around things like SKU counts, modular disciplines, PDQs, those pretty damn quick displays that we put into stores. Have we got the disciplines around those that we need?

We're looking at some outlier stores, not outlier stores in terms of total performance but specifically around wages and supplies and we're just being very thoughtful about how we deal with those. We've got a whole group stores that are doing a pretty good job of managing costs there but we have a cohort that we know that we can lean into.

Finally, returns. Again, you can imagine in a business like ours how many mismatched shoes you get, how many returns you get from dotcom, what happens in terms of ripped packages. Simply getting good retail processes and disciplines around these are going to assist us.

We believe that these fourth quarter actions will help up offset a portion of the significant headwinds that we're seeing whether it be wages, healthcare cost and, of course, we do have 190 stores to open between now and the end of the year.

As we execute against the urgent agenda items, we're also focused on opportunities with the enterprise strategy in mind. Service to the customer, we're going to be really thoughtful on wages and on opportunity at the same time as we do that to really ramp up the customer experience in our store.

Secondly, in-stock, there's been a slight improvement in that but it's not enough to be noticeable. I've been in this game long enough to know that's one of the easiest ways of improving your sales, making sure you've got the right staffing levels between the backroom, between what's happening with night fill, making sure that that is appropriately run and organized. Thirdly, price, we've got to work hard in this area to make sure that we've got the gets that we want. We cannot let our competition beat us on price.

Fresh, I really do like fresh. I'm a fresh food person. So I see opportunities as I get around our stores with fresh. A factoid, our most loyal shoppers only spend 40% of their total weekly spend on fresh in our store. That's our most loyal shoppers. So as we lean into this and we start to get really the disciplines we require around fresh, I see great opportunities.

Inventory, I've already covered. It's always a constant in our business. I know when we get our inventory levels right, the rest of the ship starts to sail pretty well. And, of course, integration with e-commerce, already working closely with Neil but we're going to go even harder and faster with where we really are uniquely positioned when you think about it.

A whole set of stores, a great e-commerce business, we've just got to get in there now and go further and faster, expand assortment, improve mobile Internet experience and provide access when they desire. We've got lots to do but I can tell you I am really excited about the opportunities.

As I conduct the diagnostic review with the teams, we are continuing to find gold nuggets in the business. And I'm confident we're going to have a set of emerging initiatives that in time as we execute hard against these, we're going to see our business return to comp sales growth.

We're going to get associates engaged more than ever because I know that part of the secret sauce here is to get the army that is Wal-Mart to march. And, of course, we can get customers excited and start shopping in Wal-Mart in a digitally and physically integrated environment.

Wal-Mart will remain the standard bearer for excellence in retail for years to come. Right now, we can get pretty excited about what we've got coming for the holidays. We got a great plan to win and I get the opportunity to hand over a pretty exciting part of our business, what we're doing for holidays and what we're going to sell, to Duncan. So welcome, Duncan, to the stage. Thank you.

(Video Playing)

DUNCAN MAC NAUGHTON, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, CHIEF MERCHANDISING OFFICER WAL-MART US, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Thank you, Greg.

Before I begin discussing with you all the great things that we have planned for the holidays this season, I want to stop for a minute and take a quick look to remind you about who is our customer at Wal-Mart US.

Doug said this, we're in the business to help people save money so they can live better and that applies to everybody. Our customers are not defined by demographics. We serve all of America from young to old, from low income to affluent, from rural towns to urban cities, across all ethnicities, and we believe that all these segments are value driven. Doug said that.

In fact, with our proprietary data and Nielsen Homescan panel data, 84% of shoppers have value intent in their behaviors and their attitudes when they go to shop and Wal-Mart is uniquely positioned with our everyday low prices, our broad assortment of products and brands and that intersection that you just heard Greg talk about between physical locations and digital capabilities to win in the marketplace better than anybody in this business.

So do you want to talk about the holidays? I want to talk about the holidays. It's going to be fun. So as you heard from Greg a minute ago, we're doubling down to make sure that we show price gaps across the marketplace, across the United States and across the categories.

And one way that we're doing this is utilizing Savings Catcher. We rolled out Savings Catcher in August 2014 across the country. This reinforces our price leadership message and we have seen an amazing response from our customers.

Using our Savings Catcher app, customers can scan their Wal-Mart receipt for comparison for local market prices in categories in grocery, in consumables, over-the-counter products, health and wellness products and select general merchandise categories.

If a local competitor offers a lower advertised price on any of these items purchased at Wal-Mart, we're going to refund that difference right then on a Wal-Mart eGift Card that they can use on Walmart.com or they can bring it into the store and use on their next basket.

So in our test market, we saw increased trips and increased spend from Savings Catcher users versus non-users. And since the national launch, we've had 5 million people start using this program and almost 3% of all receipts are submitted through this tool.

Now Savings Catcher is about building trust with our customers. It's another way to continue to prove to our customers on our everyday low price guarantee. In fact, less than half of the receipts submitted qualified for a refund.

And the average refund, less than a dollar which I believe is a real testament to our customer that our promise on everyday low prices is living and living well in the marketplace. Additionally, we heard from our customers, you see it on the slide this quote, this app will help prevent you from running from store to store to find the lowest prices because we'll do the work for them.

And finally, this program is a unique example I believe of that intersection between digital and physical. We work very closely with Neil and his team and we've really learned about all the capabilities from Savings Catcher and we're seeing a great digital response.

In fact, this program is driving traffic to e-commerce attracting new customers to our site and to our mobile apps. Get this. Last week, 81% of the receipts came through mobile devices. When we launched this in August, this app became number two in the App Store within two weeks.

So we've learned a lot from this program. We've learned a lot about our customers. We've learned about how they shop and we're going to continue to learn more, this holiday season.

Let's take a quick look at a short video that shows you how easy Savings Catcher is.

(Video Playing)

DUNCAN MAC NAUGHTON: It's a great program. I'm really excited about it.

As you heard from Greg, fresh is a big focus for our business this year. Over the past year, we made significant improvements across our fresh business and this is evident by our 40 basis points improvement in our market share according to Nielsen Perishable Data. It also shows up in our customers' confidence in their perception that Wal-Mart can in fact provide consistent quality produce for their families.

Now we understand that produce is in fact the traffic driving area in our store and we're committed, I mean, committed to long-term programs that will continue to improve the quality and the consistency of produce in our stores.

Last year, we talked to you about would I buy it program. This training program was designed to give our associates in store expectations on excellence and standards that we expect to see for our customers when they walk in our store.

Essentially, this program put our associates in the customers' mindset, they just ask our associate that said, if you're not going to buy this product, the customer's probably not likely to buy it either.

So we've also worked upstream to get more local produce on the shelf and this year, I'm pleased to announce the relaunch of our focus on fresh including our guaranteed by me program. We're improving every facet of our fresh business from operational components, from product flow to forecasting, to associate training and development within our stores.

The guaranteed by me ensures that every piece of produce, every piece of produce that we place on our shelves is the quality that our customers expect. With this initiative, we'll also focus on giving more days of freshness to our customer. They have a better eating experience and it lasts longer in their refrigerator.

To bring this campaign to life, we launched a National Apple Fest Campaign that I'd like you to see. Let's take a look.

(Video Playing)

DUNCAN MAC NAUGHTON: Great looking product in our stores now. Please enjoy it. So, hopefully, many of you were out in our stores in a local market recently and if you did, I hope you saw our entertainment relay which we inside the business call project reboot.

You know, last year, as you may recall, we discussed many of the entertainment categories that needed some attention because the industry trends were changing and changing rapidly. Entertainment is a key traffic driving area for Wal-Mart particularly at the holidays and we need to ensure that we're providing our customers with the right assortment and the right products for their ever-changing lifestyle needs.

So to do this, we completely re-envisioned the department delivering a new and exciting customer experience. We reallocated this space increasing areas and growth categories like wireless and our accessories business and then reducing the space in physical DVDs and physical music.

We're also interactively showcasing the brands that are relevant to our customers like this Beats headphone setup. Our customers can actually really feel and experience that Beats music experience in the store.

We're also getting into new categories like the wearable category. We're really pleased with the results we've seen so far from project reboot because we're building prominence with key brands and key products in a great area in our store.

On the food side of the business, we're focused on enhancing the in-store experience, you heard it from Greg. We're going to continue to have our traditional bake center again but this year, we're going to be digitally connected.

Our customers can look at the latest recipe trends right there at the bake center, all the components, how to build that meal right in our store. Our goal is to inspire great holiday snacks and great holiday meals.

We're also launching entertaining at Wal-Mart in about a thousand of our stores across the country. In our holiday entertaining guide, we're going to share recipes and tips about holiday family gatherings, meals, snacks that will make the whole event very, very special.

We're going to have demo booths in our stores so that a customer can actually interact and see firsthand, experience the taste of all those recipes that we're featuring in our entertainment guide. For us, it's about inspiring that inner chef in all of our customers.

We're excited about great merchandise and great prices online and in our stores this holiday season. We've already got Halloween set and I hope you got to see that in the stores as well. I think it looks fabulous.

We're showcasing some great products like our $16.97 Halloween costume including Disney, DC Comics and Marvel costumes. They look great. They're selling great and the customers are really interacting well with them.

Additionally, we've got a great set of inflatables if you went out to our lawn and garden and saw all the great inflatables that we have for the customer as well with great value relative to the marketplace.

For the holiday business, we'll be ready with seasonal decor for everybody in the marketplace including 100-count GE LED light sets, wait for it, $6.98, that's a 40% value, 40% value versus our competition. And when the customer brings that light set home, 80% savings versus the traditional incandescent light bulb set.

So save money at Wal-Mart, save money on utility bill. Another fun one, see this Christmas tree up here, GE iTwinkle Pre-Lit 7.5-foot tree, $249, down $150 from last year. What's exciting about this? People today like to customize their lifestyle.

So you go in there, you can pick the color of lights. You can pick the light show. You can pick the music, all of which attached from the iOS device or your Android device. Again, being relevant for our customer today.

We'll also have the gifts across the whole family that are available. Great items like Keurig 2.0. We launched that two weeks ahead of the marketplace and we're $20 below with competition.

What's exciting about a good old coffeemaker? Well, this new technology allows you now to make that perfect cup of coffee. But I work for Greg or for Anne, you need a four-cup drip. So that's what I'm living right now, right Greg? So he likes to drink tea but I drink coffee.

So this is on the shelves right now with support across in the food business, all the coffee, all the teacup, all specialty beverage both merchandise and the home side so the grocery side of the store.

We're also going to have some of the great items on our shelves. Another great item, sorry, I love merchandise, like our Disney Frozen, anybody heard about that? Disney Frozen? If you haven't, you're going to hear about it, all right?

This maybe the best selling item this year, right here. This is Elsa, hopefully, you know Elsa. This is going to be $28.88, $11 savings over the marketplace. Now if you have young kids then you know Elsa. If you have grand kids, you might. But this young lady is unbelievable.

(Audio Playing)

DUNCAN MAC NAUGHTON: Now that's going to irritate you all Christmas.

What did you say? She said buy Wal-Mart stuff. So that's going to be something - that's going to sell really well. And for the high tech folks in the family, we'll also going to have maybe a solace in the story yesterday, Vizio 50-inch Ultra HDTV, $998. Are you kidding me?

So take care of your children, take care of yourself, it's going to be a great holiday season. You know what else? We're also thinking about great fantastic values for items across the store, across our toy section that the decor looks great.

But what we're learning from our customer is their consuming content in all sorts of different ways today, right? They want to be on their phone, they want to be on their tablet, they want to be on social media, digital media.

So our marketing team has built a great framework for advertising this year and this is how we're going to talk to. We call it our Holiday Hub. Take a look.

(Video Playing)

DUNCAN MAC NAUGHTON: I love that. Real-time content, number shared voice will be everywhere in our customers' lives. Stephen, you did a great job with your team.

So we're also going to continue some of the great programs that have been successful in our past. We've already launched in September as you may know you're free Layaway Program that allows our customers to pick up their holiday gifts, put them in on Layaway and pay for them over time before Christmas interest free.

We also once again talked to the kids and say, help us get the best stories for Christmas this year and some of the examples that you're going to see are Zoomer Interactive Dinosaur over here. Unbelievable. Real dinosaur movements, right, eats, runs, chases, some stuff you don't really want to do but it's part of the game.

It has dino sensibilities as well as this one that I really like, this is the Kidizoom Smartwatch, right? This is a camera, this is video, this is video recorder and it's got four learning games on it as well.

So you know how kids love to consume technology. This is going to be another great seller. We also have Teenage Ninja Turtles, they're also very popular for the boys, right, also very popular for the girls. So great products this year for the holiday season.

We're also going to bring back our one-hour guarantee for Black Friday session. This is a program that no one else can match. One-hour guarantee ensures that our customers can come to our store, get the product that they want for the season at a guaranteed price before Christmas, Okay?

We also going to have some amazing products and amazing prices for Black Friday as well as during the holiday but I can't share them with you, not yet. You're going to have to wait to see. We're really excited about our great holiday season.

So what I'd like to do is show you one of the videos that was actually interacting with the kids that helped us pick the best holiday seasons of our holiday and we went back and changed our buying and brought deeper when we saw the kids interact with their toys. Let's take a look.

(Video Playing)

DUNCAN MAC NAUGHTON: Great toys in that video. It's fun to watch kids interact with today. So feel good about the holiday season.

I'm going to turn it over to Gisel to walk you through all the things going on in operations. Gisel?

GISEL RUIZ, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER WAL-MART US, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Good morning. Thanks, Duncan.

It's tough going after the merchant, right? I have no videos and if I can have it, I plan on not doing the laps back and forth to that corner over there. You know, we share that holiday plan with all of our store managers.

We brought in over 4,000 store managers to Denver at the convention center, shared all everything that Duncan talked about then went out to the floor to talk to store managers and I have to tell you, our store managers are so excited about our holiday plan.

When we went out to the floor at the convention center, some of the things that they were really excited about, first, there was a ton of buzz about Frozen but not just because of Elsa and the movie, the title, but because of the property across all the categories. So they were extremely excited about that.

The store managers were also excited about electronics like some of the new name brands, Beats, Skullcandy, FitBit. And then they were also excited about what I think is the best seasonal Christmas presentation that I've seen in my 23 years with Wal-Mart.

So Duncan extended an invitation, I want to extend an invitation to you too, please make time to get to our supercenters and our stores here in Northwest Arkansas while you here and if not, head to supercenter when you get back home. Please walk the seasonal area and it's sure would be nice if you pick up a couple of items to talk home too. So please come out to our supercenters.

You know for this holiday season, we know that our customers have relentless choices on where they choose to shop and we hear from about a quarter of the million customers each month, it is more important than ever to respond to what we know is on their mind.

So ask yourself, what is on their mind, what do we know about this quarter of a million customers each month that we talk with? It's very simple in operations. In stock, they want to know that we're going to have the item that they're looking for every visit.

They also want help from associates when they need help and where they need help in the store. And we know that they want a fast checkout experience. So what are we going to do about it in the stores and operations?

Let me start with in-stock. Some of you know that we rolled out a new inventory process at the beginning of the year across the entire chain. It was a simplified inventory management system.

You see our associates were spending too much time perfecting the accuracy of the logic versus stocking shelves and we knew we were missing sales. So eliminated nearly every exception process that our associates were involved with out in the sales floor.

We eliminated all the unnecessary counting and business making the inventory management process easier for our associates, we were able to repurpose 20 million hours back in the stocking.

This is year one of the team we rolled out so we've got more work to do. We're going to continue to reinforce execution of the new process while we're still finding even more ways to simplify it and remove unnecessary work for our associates. That way our associates can work on what matters most and that's pretty product on the shelves.

This flip will not end and I want to make sure that everyone in the room understands that it's not just the store action plan. Greg mentioned earlier the urgent agenda items. So what we're doing with the process coupled with inventory reduction in the stores which is one of our four urgent agenda items.

I know that we're going to make a meaningful difference and a meaningful improvement in in-stock. We are committed to improving in-stock.

But being in-stock isn't the only thing that we're working on. It's not enough. We have heard from our customers that we need to get better at customer service. You heard Doug talked about it in his opening comments and we know that that's starts and ends with our associates.

We also know that motivated associates help provide better customer service. So I'm happy to report that over the past two years, we have registered the highest associate engagement scores in our company's history.

This year, we're hiring more seasonal associates than ever before. This holiday season, we will hire over 60,000 new associates to help during the holiday season.

And while we were in Denver, we shared our plan with all of store managers to renew our commitment to customer service and this plan includes wanting new training and development programs to all associates.

It includes investing in departments like deli and electronics. It also includes wanting a new dress code. Our associates are sporting new navy blue vest with a spark on the back for a more professional look.

And as I travelled to stores every week, I've had a chance to talk to dozens of associates out in the store since the dress code launched. Here's what they're saying about the new dress code. It's always a little bit nervous to see how our associates respond and react.

This feedback has been overwhelmingly positive. They used word like it's really light or it's cool because it's made out of synthetic performance material. I feel like I look sharp, I look professional.

We even have store management volunteering to wear the new vest. So we're excited about that because for us, first and foremost, the most important thing for our customers is that they're able to identify our associates out on the floor.

To help reinforce the importance of customer service, we also recently implemented a secret shopper program, this is not a gotcha. This is recognition of our associates who are getting it right.

Since the launch, we've already recognized over 150,000 associates and every day that number continues to grow. We are just getting started. There is more to come on our plan to help improve customer service.

Duncan mentioned earlier all the great items that are on our customers' wish list. Well, when I'm travelling in the stores and visiting with customers asking what we could do better, the number one thing on their wish list is fast checkup service.

They don't want to stand in line and that's why we're introducing what we call the Checkout Promise. We all know that when you go shopping in the Wal-Mart store especially during the holiday season, it can be pretty busy.

They want to get in and out of their store quickly. So we decided to accept this challenge and double down during the peak holiday times between Thanksgiving and Christmas. This year, our plan is to open more registers than ever.

Now this Checkout Promise is a big idea and it's a catalyst we think that will help differentiate us during the holiday season and help improve our service - levels of service to a level that our customers need and we know that they appreciate.

The investments that we're making are real, investments to ours and strategic areas at the store that are meaningful to our customers. But I also want you to know that we're finding ways to invest in our associates as well.

We continue to provide access to more jobs than ever and we offer opportunity for associates to grow a first-time job into amazing careers. We made a commitment last year. Greg mentioned it in his opening comments to offer job to any veteran within a year of his or her honorable discharge.

And you might remember that our original projection was the higher 100,000 veterans over the next five years. I am proud to announce that in just in a little over one year we've already hired 63,000 veterans at positions a Wal-Mart. Once you are in the door, the opportunity to grow in your hours, in your pay, in your career, those opportunities are real.

This year, we implemented a program that allows our associates to sign up for available shifts putting the flexibility and the options back in the hands of our associates giving them access to more hours. Since the program launched, we have offered more than 39 million hours to our associates.

During that same time period, over 80,000 associates have been promoted to full time positions with consistent paychecks and benefits eligibility. And still today, the majority of our workforce continues to be fulltime which is unusual for the majority of retail outlets.

We also see our associates assuming additional responsibility. I love the fact that Doug included these numbers in his opening comments and I think it's noteworthy so I'll say them again, we promote almost 170,000 associates at higher compensation rates.

And he said this as well and it's important to note, 40% of those promotions that happen every year happened within the first year of them being with Wal-Mart. This is also something that we're very proud of, 75% of our store management team started out as hourly associates.

We've continued that trend this year with over 8,000 promotions from hourly to management. These are jobs that pay anywhere between $40,000 and $250,000 a year. Those management positions are all in the field out across the United States.

So as for Wal-Mart, you can go as far as your talent and hard work will take you. We operate over 4,000 stores across the US and just a moment, Judith will talk about how we're continuing to grow.

I am really excited about our focus on customer service on improving the levels of service in our stores and the interactions with our customers. I'm also excited about the career opportunities that we're going to continue to provide for our associates.

Before I wrap up though, I did want to give you a quick update on a topic - two topics that we talked about the last time we were together. We talked about two groups of stores if you remember. We talked about our discount stores and we talked about the bottom 10% stores, underperforming stores.

Last year, we discussed how we weren't satisfied with the performance of our discount stores. You know, keep in mind, this is primarily because of the merchandise mix. Majority of the floor is dedicated to general merchandise and our fresh offering is very, very limited.

Well, we've taken action on about half of the 500 discount stores and that action includes approvals for expansions, relocations, conversions to make sure that we expand our fresh offering in the stores. The other half of the stores, we're continuing to review and we'll have actions set against this.

Last year, we also discussed that we had about 300 stores that were considered underperforming stores, the bottom 10%. They were underperforming in sales and profit. Happy to report that these stores had a comp sales improvement of over 390 basis points.

This is a good improvement but it's not where I'd like it to be and our team will continue to be focused on that outlier stores executing store-specific programs to help improve our operational consistency, will solve for merchandising needs in those stores and we'll continue to close the gap between our best and our underperforming stores.

This is a really exciting time of year for the stores. You've got to get them in to really feel it and understand it. Greg mentioned earlier, we're focusing on improving our core business, that's what the operations team is focused on. And through the urgent agenda item work, we're positioning our business and our team for long-term success.

Now I want to turn it over to Judith McKenna who's going to talk about some exciting new things that are happening across this suite and she's going to cover strategic initiatives that are established within the enterprise strategy. So please help me welcome Judith McKenna.

JUDITH MCKENNA, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, CHIEF DEVELOPMENT OFFICER WAL-MART US, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Thanks, Gisel, and good morning, everybody.

You heard both Greg and Doug talked about the way that our customers are changing rapidly. What they expect from us as a retailer is evolving and they want more choices in how they shop and when they shop and to be more digitally connected than ever before.

And I would like to talk about just being in a diagnostic review phase that doesn't mean that we're standing still. We're continuing to build on the work that's being done in recent years to meet those changing customer needs to ensure that we still remain relevant. However, as you've also heard, we're being thoughtful about what we do and when we do it to ensure that we're on the right path for all of our stakeholders.

Today I'd like to talk to you about three key areas, about our existing formats, about the tests and pilots that we have underway, and about our focus on providing services.

Let's turn first to formats. Consensus is at the heart of our business and they are critically important. They make it more than 80% of our store portfolio and continue to be on those productive formats. This year, we forecasting to open around about 120 units slightly ahead of the guidance of 115 units that we gave you previously.

Now you heard from Greg that we want to continue to own the stock-up shop. That's really important. But we recognize that in order to do that, we have to refine supercenter of the future to drive customer traffic to the box and to make sure they have a quality shopping experience once they're inside.

So to do that, you can expect us to be looking at a number of things and a number of initiatives including refining new space to make it easier for customers to find what they need but also what space we did to which categories and which services.

Duncan mentioned project reboot in electronics. That's a great example of where we're roll after this doing this. Taking space or giving space to categories that are fastest growing but reducing the footprint on categories that are perhaps not as relevant to customers as they were say five years ago.

We'll also be looking increasing our digital integration to that seamless customer experience and strengthening our service offerings in ways that will be unique to Wal-Mart. And finally, we'll have a focus on our shopping experience its real quality from the moment you drive into our parking lot to the moment that you leave.

Now let me walk through what this redefined supercenter looks like. We want to be thoughtful about turning it in growth plans. And for that reason as Greg said, our plan is to deliver between 60 and 70 supercenters including relocations and expansions next year. We recognize that we're probably do one of our [largest] in the several years but we want to ensure that we have got supercenters that are fixed to the future.

Let me turn next to neighborhood market. Our 40,000 square foot boxes offering a convenient feeling top-of-shop for our customers with fresh, fuel and pharmacy at the heart of the customer proposition. We're continuing to roll this format out at pace.

This year, we go to guidance that we will open between 180 and 200 units. We're forecasting to be just below that range at 170 but with around about 60% of our opening still to come in quarter four, in fact in December and January. You can imagine we're continuing to track that number very closely and we are really focused on having a strong and great new store opening.

Our plan for next year is to anticipate the program that's very similar to this year, 180 to 200 units and as with supercenters, we're going to be very thoughtful about that number of units.

Our focus will be on quality. We want to ensure we're in exactly the right location to allow us to maximize convenience for the customer. We'll be judicious and disciplined in our rollout plans.

But we are still excited about the future of neighborhood markets and we're encouraged by the strong performance we continue to see. We now have over 15 months of consecutive positive comps and within that, each relevant year group continues to deliver positive comps in their own rights.

And in addition to that, the new store openings we've seen this year are right in line with our expectations. Our focus us now on optimizing this format with areas of work underway in four key initiatives, improving the customer offer particularly in fresh and particularly around bakery, produce and deli.

Improving the operating model, introducing new store processes relevant to small format that helps drive stores efficiently. An increased focus on operational standards particularly on friendly customer service. And finally, creating true stores of the community and bringing services that are really convenient to our customer closer to where they shop. So neighborhood markets are something we remain very committed to.

Let me talk next about our express stores. These are 12,000 square feet smaller format stores and to clarity, none of them that I just talked about some neighborhood markets include any of the 12,000 square-foot stores.

We have 22 expresses open today and we announced last month and many of you asked me about it last night that we made the decision to rebrand these stores as neighborhood markets for all future openings. The decision to do that was actually a very simple one and it was led completely by our customers' feedback.

That feedback on how they shop in the stores and what they expected from them when they were inside. It's a really great example of this learning as were going along not waiting until the end of the trial to make changes.

And the biggest change that customers will see is not just in the name. We're also changing out the assortment. We're reducing areas such as home wares or picture frames, photo frames, shower curtains but we're actually expanding on fresh and we're increasing the housing power on those things that customers buy every day, water and diapers.

And in addition, we're trying to find ways to make the shopping experience easier. So you'll see us putting more self-service checkouts let's say in those stores that we're rolling out.

Now we'll have all of our test stores by the end of quarter one and that will give us just over 100 of this 12,000 square foot stores to learn from. This is a test and we need to evaluate the results once we have them. So it included no future openings in any of the guidance we've given you today.

Before I leave in formats, let me tell you about one other thing which is an organizational change that we've made which is to support our evolution to a more multi-format business. Now similar to the change that happened when supercenters were developed in the early 1990s from division one stores, we've now created a separate division and sales structure to support small formats.

We completed the restructuring at the end of the September and now have a full field team with over 60 market managers in place specifically dedicated to small formats. The small format stores report up through those market managers and they intend to a dedicated regional and divisional structure. We've also introduced dedicated home office functions inside dedicated home office of functions to certain areas as well. I believe this will make a significant difference in our ability to focus on this format and our ability to deliver global optimization plans.

And having worked and developed a multi-format organization within Asda in the U.K., I'm really excited about the difference that this will make and the focus that it will bring. And we're really pleased that Mike Moore who is previously president of the central business unit is now leading the small format development and operations area.

Many of you will know Mike, he's the retail veteran 30 years almost experience in Wal-Mart and interestingly was part of the one of the first supercenter teams way back in the 90s which just goes to show that everything in retail comes around at some point.

So in addition to format, I want to talk on the test and trials that we have underway at the moment and new operating points and new access. Wal-Mart was built from trying new things. Hypermart evolved into the successful supercenter program and Helen's Arts and Crafts perhaps wasn't quite so positive.

The iteration has allowed us to learn to move forwards and to try new things and I think again we're in a development phase of learning from a number of new concepts. We're being very deliberate in our testing.

We've introduced a new concept internally called pilot suite purpose, know exactly what you're testing, know exactly what you're expectations are and have a very formal evaluation of the results. In these things I'm going to talk about, let me first set the expectations for everybody here.

We will not be giving any forward guidance as to what the future plans off for these initiatives, that pilots, and just like with the express stores, we learned from them and we'll announce what's next or not next at the appropriate time.

But there is one test I can update you on today. Last year, we introduced due to the concept to tethering, tethering a small store to a supercenter to delivery of products. You know, the large stores are acting like a mini warehouse, like a mini distribution center for those smaller formats.

Our early results showed us that this clearly wasn't going to give us a sustainable model either economically or from the operational complexity that it introduced so we've called a halt to that pilot.

We're continuing to look at tethering back office activities and still think there are way large format to small format to work together efficiently but not for that distribution of products.

So let me talk about on more positive trial which is our grocery home shopping trial in Denver. This continues to go well and customer demand continues to build. You know, you can order your groceries online and have been delivered to your door to home and this year, we also introduce the ability for customers to pick up those groceries from anyone of our 36 stores in the Denver area.

Not only are we learning a lot through our operating model here but we're also very focused on what the customer experience is. It's really critical in a service like this.

To date, we really encourage that 85% of customers have rated this four or above on a scale of 1 to 5 for customer satisfaction but we're continuing to learn a lot. We're also continuing to leverage the talent and knowledge from our U.K., from our Asda team to maximize our learnings whether it basic delivery and pickup or operational processes.

Neil and the team will talk to you more about our Denver trials later today and I know Dave is planning to talk about the trials in Asda as well and the learnings that we're taking.

Moving on to perhaps one of our more exciting pilots that we have which I know a lot of you saw on the buses last night and drove past which is our Wal-Mart pickup grocery here in Bentonville. Our customers can now order online from a selection of 10,000 items and arrange to have them delivered directly into their trunk by one of our associates at a collection time to suit them at our drive through location.

They never even have to unclick their seatbelts or leave the car. We pick the items for them from a 15,000 square foot mini warehouse attached to the drive-through location and that allows us to fulfill a customer order in just two hours or any given time up to three weeks later whichever is the most convenient for them. It's all about choice and ease for them.

It's very early days. We're only three weeks into the trial open to the public and we're still restricting access to it to make sure we get the operation right but we're really encouraged by the response of customers.

The ability to pick up groceries in the convenience it gives them has been fantastic and I have to tell you the most feedback that I had has been from busy moms who no longer have to get themselves out of the car of more importantly get their kids out of the car at the same time. It is a test we're continuing to learn, but every day and every week, we're building on that learning.

While I'm talking about Bentonville, let me just mention the Wal-Mart To Go convenience store which is just down the road from the drive which we opened in March this year.

Just to say to you, this is a one-of-a-kind trial. A few easy essential groceries and quick meals. It's something that we're monitoring closely and we continue to evaluate.

And finally, on our trials and pilots, let me talk about Wal-Mart Care Clinics. We have 11 currently open and plans to open another six in the balance of year. This is a really important trial for us. Healthcare convenience and value to our customers and to our associates.

It's far too early to draw conclusions. But, again, customer satisfaction is key here and 4.8 out of 5 had been the score, so far, we've been getting on customer ratings. We monitor the results closely for this as well.

Which leads me on to providing service solutions for customers to make their lives easier. We know and recognize, we can see it every day, the difference that services can plan in driving traffic to our stores across all of our whole map, whatever the size.

Pharmacy and healthcare continues to grow in importance for customers. We have pharmacies in almost every one of our stores, whatever the size, and that service continues to build out from vaccinations to flu shots to the recent partnership that we announced with Direct Health. As part of that Direct Health initiative, DirectHealth.com, as part of that initiative, around 2700 agents of DirectHealth.com will actually be based in our store to help customers navigate the complexities of health insurance options which I have to say as somebody who's new to the US, needs some help navigator.

Pharmacy is also a really key area where we can combine physical and digital and you'll hear again from Neil and the team later how we developed the pharmacy app within the Wal-Mart app that allows you to order online. It's another great example of that seamless integration of customer service.

Money services is also an area where we can continue to evolve and we can offer the customer real value. You know, earlier this year, we announced the launch of Wal-Mart to roll out money transfer service in partnership with Ria. Astounded that in just 21 weeks, we reckon we have saved customers, on average, about 45 million in services, not on average each clearly, on average for the total. So 45 million in service fees. That's an incredible saving.

We're going to continue to look the new and innovative partnerships in this area because we do believe this is a place that we can really drive a unique Wal-Mart value and points of view to help support customers.

And finally, our site to store program which you've heard mentioned a couple of times today. This is a really key service. It's one of our service offerings, offering customers access to almost the full range of Wal-Mart.com for free pick up in any one of our stores.

We're about to rebrand site to store as Wal-Mart Pickup. We think that's the simpler message for customers. It's not easy understood what the services and it allows us to bring all of our programs together under one umbrella.

In addition to changing the name, we've also got plans to strengthen our service in this holiday season to meet our ever demanding customer's expectations. They want a quick fast service when they come in to collect their item.

So to wrap up, you know, I've been in the business, in the US business for about four and a half months now and I am incredibly proud to be part of the team. Like Greg, I recognize there is a lot of opportunity for us to go after but I also recognize we have a lot to do.

You know, we have to continue to focus on our existing formats and to evolve them. We have to pilot and learn from the new concepts and we have to make sure that we continue to look the new and innovative services for our customers.

So with that, let me hand you back to Greg to wrap up.

GREG FORAN: Thanks, Judith, for that terrific presentation and also Duncan, great - get us enthusiastic about the merchandise. Always and opportunity to sell some product and Gisel for giving us an update on operations.

I'd like to just key in on a few items just to wrap up here. First of all, we do have a strong set of unique strengths that give us a foundation to deliver value for our customers, our shareholders, and our associates. We've got an unwavering commitment to innovation and we can see that coming through.

Our approach to business leadership to focus on the customer, I really believe that sets us apart from our competition. What we're doing around logistics, what we're thinking about with IT, our supplier relationships, what we can do with exclusive brands and offerings, there's a lot that we can get after.

We're going to continue to build on the strength of our geographic scale and Neil's digital presence to facilitate growth. At the same time, let's be pretty clear, we will remain very true to our core beliefs and principles.

It's these values that have allowed us to consistently perform the way that we have and exceed the expectations of shareholders and our customers overtime. That customers are going to continue to depend on us to deliver a shopping experience to save in time and money and I know for sure, we've got 1.2 million associates out there that depend on us to provide opportunities for them to advance their careers and I have met a number of them over the last few weeks.

I can tell you that I'm looking really forward to the challenge ahead to leading Wal-Mart and what I think is changing in landscape. And I know that we do have all the tools at our disposal to try and remain on top.

We got this unique culture and history and I'm excited about what we can do to strengthen our business and serve customers the way that we know that they want to be served.

So wrap up, I want to touch on just a few things. First of all, we are continuing to conduct a pretty thorough review of the business and as I complete my first hundred days, I would expect that by yearend, we've got some pretty clearly defined initiatives and we would look to provide some type of update in the early spring.

Second, we're focused on improving the core. We know how to address these opportunities. It's something I've done all my life. We're getting after them. We're starting now.

Thirdly, we're focused on driving sales. And I'm excited about what I'm seeing in the business as I get around. I'm excited about going through my first holiday season in the US We're going to make sure that we execute each store and all the aspects that I spoke about in terms of moments of truth, making sure we've got the merchandise here and we're ready to serve the customers.

Fourth, what we're doing is we've got to make sure that we are centered on all things around the customer and that we're looking to build for the future, evolving our format, what services do we want to add, how do we improve the convenience, what can we do that the customer is looking for. So we will continue as Judith shared with you to pilot with a purpose. We're going to do all those things at the same time.

Finally, we are Wal-Mart. You know, on Sunday, this last Sunday, it's about 8 o'clock in the morning, I'm in a store in Detroit, I've got a number of the buying team with me. I had Scott Neal who looks after produce and meat. I have [Didi] who looks after bakery and Deli. I have Michelle who looks after consumables and I had [Mary Beth] who looks after home.

Nothing beats being in a store in Detroit, Sunday morning at 8 o'clock and seeing the enthusiasm from our associates because they are so proud of the scene that they run. So I don't underestimate for one moment what we can achieve as we strengthen our business, as we start to serve our customers and we engage our 1.2 million associates and get the army that is Wal-Mart to march.

I think we're well positioned for growth and I am incredibly excited about our future. I introduced the leadership team before. I'm going to ask them to come forward now and come on stage and we're going to start some questions.

Questions and Answers

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Greg, before we get the Q&A underway, some of you, both here and on the webcast, have asked about the slides. In an effort to be sustainable, we're not printing any so for those of you who are here live with us, we're not handing you any paper. We are showing the slides live so if you have an electronic device, you can easily watch the slides as we're going through the meeting.

And for those of you who are listening, you can download those slides at the end of the presentations. So we have 30 minutes now, Greg, for some Q&A. And for those of you here, you know the process. Please raise your hand, wait for a mike, so everyone can here the question and we would ask you to please say your name and your firm.

We'll start with John.

JOHN LAWRENCE, ANALYST, STEPHENS, INC.: Thanks, Sheryl. John Lawrence with Stephens. Greg, would you comment on that initial round of feedback from the store associates? What were some of those responses and feedback that surprised you the most?

GREG FORAN: Thanks, John. So you can imagine it was pretty wide and varied and maybe the best way I'll answer it is break them to three phases because I've sorted our story.

I guess, probably, an hour after I put the challenge out there, they were starting to come through and the first group were pretty focused on opportunities that they could see in terms of proving in stocking the store, getting out to the frontend and making sure the frontend would be managed well, getting into fresh foods and creating a deli sampling program. So that might be an example of what they saw.

And interestingly, one of the things that came through within the first hour was that inadvertently, we had turned off toilet seat covers in the restrooms. So I can tell you that was one thing that we got turned on again pretty quickly.

After about a week, I then got another batch through. When I say batch, I'm talking about, you know, a thousand, 1,500. These people had gone back to their stores and engaged with their associates.

They're being a little bit, I guess, more thoughtful and wanting to engage with your team around some challenges and they would be similar to the first group but they started to put some really good KPIs against what we're going to do so they were saying, Gisel, I want to get out the frontend, I'm going to make sure that I'm there or two hours a day at the busy time of the day but I want my fast and friendly score to move from 88.6 to 92.3,et cetera.

You know the most interesting group was the group that I got through last. And these were generally our longer-term managers, 30 years in the business. And I don't know how many we got but, boy, we got a lot of them.

These people were really thoughtful. They had gone back and they had done a couple of things. The first things they did is they see I'm not getting fire off first, I want to actually see what happens here. And they heard that not only was I responding but I was actually responding personally.

So a number of them, Gisel, really opened up, didn't they?

GISEL RUIZ: Yes.

GREG FORAN: And they said, yes, we're pretty concerned about what's happening here and in terms of some of the structure that we've got to run fresh or we think that we've got to lean in to price and we've lost some of that edge. So they were really unvarnished with me. And as I shared, when I spoke previously, that has been incredibly useful. We've kept every single one of them. And you can probably group them in a bucket of probably about 40 things and we're using that as part of our diagnostic.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: We'll go next to Bernie.

BERNIE SOSNICK, ANALYST, GILFORD SECURITIES: Bernie Sosnick, Gilford Securities. You said that you simplified the inventory management process early this year and yet inventory continued to grow. I'm wondering what the source of the difficult remaining is particularly in the backroom management of inventories?

GISEL RUIZ: Great. Thank you, Bernie.

The program changes that I mentioned before were in pilot last year. And so we went rollout to chain this year. Those were mainly various store-focused changes.

I think what we've learned is that that's not the only piece of the puzzle that needs to be solved for. So when I mentioned earlier our urgent agenda items, we know that together, supply chain, replenishment, merchants, the urgent agenda items about reducing inventory management, and more specifically, disciplines around feature flow or transportation flow, those things - all those things have to come together in order for us to really make a meaningful difference in instock.

So while we have the front-face team, processes, completed, finished, rolled out, there is still more work to do with the behind the scenes work at the home office.

GREG FORAN: I guess, maybe if I can just add to that.

GISEL RUIZ: Yes.

GREG FORAN: We have most stock coming in than we've got going out. So, you know, Duncan, you may want to add a bit to this. But you heard me refer to PDQs which I would imagine you're familiar with? So the prepacked displays?

We've got too many of those going in to the store for the available space. It's as simple as that. We have said a space - a store has got a space for 80 and we've been sending them 120. That's one point.

Second point is we've added SKU count in over the last few years which I think has been really appropriate in a number of areas but we haven't had as tight a discipline as to how many SKUs we've added in and in some cases, we're over SKU. And that in turn, puts pressure on your modular because the deal of running a modular, your planogram is I've called it the countries I've lived in, you're basically got to have a role of a case and a half on shelf because as soon as you go below that, you got to double handle everything, you had to put it up the tarp, you got to take it out the back.

You get the discipline of a case and a half on your modular and you get one touch appearing in your store. We lost a bit of that. So some of the modulars have not been as disciplined around the case and a half.

So there's a series of things that Duncan and his team, Scott Huff is, I would imagine in the room is leading, and this team is cross functional both operations, both merchant, both the supply chain because they are out of products that we've actually put on to what we call assembly that we can now delve in to and we've actually worked out and we've got some pick slots in DCs. Those things combined over a period of time, they're going to bring inventory down as well as improving in-store processes.

DUNCAN MAC NAUGHTON: Maybe just to add, Greg, I think, my discipline feature flow channel decision which is about where we put the product in the warehouse could be some of the drivers.

Additionally, as you know, there is potential port issues on the West Coast this year so we did start bringing in Christmas freight flow earlier. We also brought in direct-to-store containers which is the right thing for the business but it doesn't play in our inventory and our direct import business is up double digit this year which is also good for the customer as we have lower cost but it does have an impact on an inventory cost.

And our new stores is probably about roughly half to slightly more than half of the inventory growth as we build the assortment. But we are squarely focused on all these key initiatives all the way from overseas, the suppliers, the rate of refill to operations to simplify execution store level.

Greg, we'll go to the back of the room for a couple. We do Matt and then Meredith.

MATTHEW FASSLER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks a lot. Good morning. It's Matthew Fassler at Goldman Sachs.

My question relates to formats and to unit growth. To the extent that you scaled back growth and you should reformat this year and you think about the implications going forward, is this really sort of a stuff and a slowdown on assessment of your formats as you step in to the US or do you potentially consider this the beginning of a slower growth mode just recognizing digital influences and the way you might want to allocate capital in the future?

GREG FORAN: Well, I guess, the first thing I say is I like supercenters. I think a supercenter, 150,000 square feet, roughly, you're going to have different sizes, I think, well managed and well run is a great, great business.

We're being thoughtful about how many we're rolling out and where we're putting them and do we want to make sure that the new ones that we roll out reflects some of the thinking that we're doing going forward? Absolutely.

So what you're seeing here is exactly that coming into play. I don't think that you should necessarily interpret anything from that other than we know that we can do better with the big bucks. It's so critical to stock shopping trip so it is what we're doing. We got to lean in there. We got to get that right and as we get that right, then we'll work out what we're going to do. I think 65 to 70 is a pretty good number.

Hundred and eighty to 200 neighborhood markets, Judith, once again, we're being thoughtful about how we're doing that and my message to Judith which I get from Doug all the time is give us quality, not quantity. You want to add anything, Judith?

JUDITH MCKENNA: No, I think that was exactly right. I mean, it will be about the same numbers this year so it's not a slowdown year-over-year the neighborhood markets and we'll test the express stores as well.

I think getting the right locations and maximizing this convenience to customers is what's essential. And Pam and her team working with the small formats team to make sure we've got the right locations when we open those then will be at the right time to make sure that that's what we'd established.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Meredith?

MEREDITH ADLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Meredith Adler from Barclays. I have a question for Gisele. You talked about the Secret Shopper program and that it's to reward people for giving extraordinary service but what happens if they observe something that is just not appropriate or doesn't give good service? How do they handle that situation without creating a morale problem?

GISEL RUIZ: Yes, great. Well, we rely on our store management teams to do that. You know, we are rolling out something called leader-to-leader training. It's in pilot right now in a couple of stores and that's where we actually teach supervisors, hourly supervisors, management supervisors, how to deal with performance management in the stores and that's something that Christian's team is leading. So that will roll out at the first of the year but in those types of cases, we really do rely on our store management teams to handle that.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Okay. We'll go to Dan and then Scott and then we'll go to back.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Good morning. You've mentioned that your goal is getting back to positive comps was hinged on a number of things, price, service, experience. You've already had a fair amount of price investors.

So as you think forward about that half-backed deposit comps, what do you identify as sort of the most important things you do that you're not doing today? Because price doesn't seem to be the issue and we do basket studies, we see a little price, it doesn't seem to be moving the needle.

GREG FORAN: Sure. So the way I think about it is this, you had to do a whole lot of things to run a good store. So, for Duncan just to go out and invest in prices is one thing. But if the store's not organized in terms of making sure that it's in stock, that it's merchandise, then it's operating right through the weekend which is the busiest period of time, then you can spend quite a lot of money and not get quite the return. If it is well organized, you do get the return.

What do we do in about positive comps and how do we go about checking it? First and foremost, you got to run great stores and it goes back to that little saga that I shared with you about moments of truth. And over the 35 years, I found when you get those things right in your store, then you get positive comps.

I could jump out of here now and then take you in a car and we could go to a really tough market and you'd walk into the store and you'd say this is a pretty good store and you say to the manager, how you're going? He said he's got 6% comps. You'd meet the associates and be enthusiastic. They're be charged. You'd walk around the store. You'd see relevant merchandising. We'd be clean, tidy, really to try and check out what we've operating.

I can go down the road and I can take you to a store 20 miles away and maybe it's negative 3% comps. It may not be in this tougher competitive area as the first store.

The store manager, the market manager, our support in those areas is what makes the difference. It's getting all of those things right. As we lean in to those, as we can really good shopkeepers, there's an opportunity for us to sensibly get our top line growing.

I think there's another great opportunity that did get close to Neil and his business and not just talk about doing some things but getting there and really make some of these happen. We're trialing lots at the moment but nail these things and I think that gives you the overlay.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Given that view, is it fair to say that the price investment that you've made is satisfactory or do you think there's additional price investment to be made?

GREG FORAN: I'm going to pass to one of my colleagues on that. Simply because being in the business for literally six weeks, I wouldn't want to comment on some of that. Duncan, what do you think?

DUNCAN MAC NAUGHTON: Sure. Pricing is very dynamic, as you know. As you look back over our price gap in the marketplace, over the last seven years, it's been pretty consistent both on an on-shelf price gap as well as a weighted price.

And so, that hasn't bounced around a lot. What's different is the amount of value or hard discounters in the marketplace next to our stores that's changed a bit. So may have seen us launch a price first initiative and we've got about 80 SKUs and about 2,500 stores which is about making sure that we have the opening price point in each of these critical categories.

So in essence with that opportunity, we can invest in price. We've also see where elasticity, where commodity cost may go up like Greg talked about in meat or in dairy, we'll hold our retail price which, in essence, is giving us an advantage and elasticity.

We've also invested aggressively in adult beverages which you've seen where we've continued to be under share and we're getting great response from the customer. So we'll be very planful, very strategic about that and we manage our basket savings or our customers market by market and we've got some great competitors across the regions of the United States and we have plans to address those and monitor those.

But overall, we have a pretty solid plan. And as Greg said, our mix has changed and our efforts you've seen in the industry where we've had margin compression as well but is driving [script count]. So we're having a good balance with both basket and trips to the store.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: We'll go to Scott next.

SCOTT MUSHKIN, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: Yes. Hi. Scott Mushkin from Wolfe Research. So just going on to the price but also labor in the store, our pricing survey suggest that the gap between you guys and a lot of competitors like H-E-B and Kroger has now, considerably, over the last five year. So I guess the first question to Greg is do we have tolerance at Wal-Mart to reestablish a price gap that was more closer to like the 15% level in a lot of these markets and do we have the tolerance to put the labor back in the stores to make sure the shelves are - shelves are properly stocked because we all know sales take time to come through where labors and price is immediate and can hurt near-term earnings, thanks.

GREG FORAN: So you're absolutely right. So some of the data that I saw recently is yesterday, absolutely indicates that our price differs depending on what market you're on. So, no surprise that I went to grand records in Detroit in the weekend because that's an area that I was getting feedback on was a challenging area. And sure enough, I get there and get in to some of our competitors and they're doing a reasonable job and the associates tell me and now on research tells me that gap is not the same as what it is, say, on the West Coast. So it does vary.

What's our tolerance around that? We have to re-instigate in some of these markets where we have lost the gap, we have to get that gap back. So how do you do that at the same time that you work on labor?

So the first comment is we're going to be pretty thoughtful about labor. And there are undoubtedly some areas in our store where we need to lean in to in terms of service. If we're going to start selling mobile phones, for example, and we've put in a new work system so you can get the contract through in 20 minutes and as much beta process, you got to have some trained associates that help serve the customer.

But there are other areas at the store where we need to be questioning just how much labor we do have. We've got some work underway, for example, and they are back offices. I think that is an opportunity for us to consider how that looks going forward.

There are other areas in the business that you can, through improved processes, achieve all kinds of things. You might take a different approach to private label. You might have a look at how you're doing some of your fresh purchasing and that you could break that down and say is there opportunities to how we're going to look at meat and how we purchase that.

You can have a look at things like shrinkage in your business and say what's been the performance there, are there opportunities? We're going to work through all those things over the next couple of months and pull together a plan that I think will actually pencil and add up and allow us in these markets that are a bit tougher to get in and get that price gap where we want it and at the same time deliver a better shopping experience to our customers. I am confident that we can do that.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: We'll go back to this side, Michael.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thank you. Two quick questions. Number one, it looks like the retail industry is getting very close to a major, sort of, restructuring both e-commerce world as well as physical world and when I talk about how you are anticipating changes in the physical world and preparing the organization for those things and those opportunities.

And secondly, you brought up private label a bunch of times. Excluding private label and food, how do you avoid the problems of history of Wal-Mart where private label is just a margin dilutive non-additive sort of situation where they said the product is always bought at Wal-Mart and don't have quality to it and are hitting just a price point.

GREG FORAN: Sure. So I'll start and maybe hand to you (inaudible) the digital and then we'll come back to private label.

I guess the first point I'd make is as I get around and I talk to customers and one of them is my wife, she actually doesn't see physical and digital as two separate things. She'll go shopping in a store and if they haven't got her size or her color, she just pulls out her mobile phone, goes on to the website and sees whether or not she can get online, whether it can be delivered to the store.

So I see what's happening in the industry. I see what we can do with Neil is being incredibly integrated because I think the customers already there and I'm excited about those opportunities.

As we start to develop some of these things that Judith was going through, as we think about new supercenter designs, we'll be taking that into account.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Yes. Thanks, Greg. I think you're exactly right. From the customer perspective, what we're seeing is the fusion of digital and physical and the omni-channel customers, one that's really focused on developing.

We're building on the e-commerce side of our business, we building world class digital foundation and we're working hard toward that. We're also putting the e-commerce capability on the backend of what we're doing to and making sure that we have, for example, supply chain that supports the rapid growth that's happening in the migration of the customers that are moving in that direction.

GREG FORAN: In terms of private label, how do I think about that? I'm really concerned if we have an issue out there with the quality of private label (inaudible) and food and has growth value or not whether it's Wild Oats and it's part of the organic or if it's general merchandise and it could have any number of names on it.

If we've got an issue with that, I'd like to hear about it. I hadn't heard about it. We can't let that happen and it's got our name on it. It's got to represent great quality, great value for the customer.

If we do lean in to private label and that could be one of the emerging initiatives that we're thinking about, I can tell you that we'll be a direct focus of mine. I've done this before, and you don't put your name on it, at least you're prepared to stand for it.

Duncan, anything you want to add?

DUNCAN MAC NAUGHTON: That is well said. I think, well, some of the great growth that we've had, actually, in our soft line business has been through putting quality back in the brands and it was recognized by the customer and that's why we've seen some good growth inside of those, either exclusive brands at Wal-Mart or some of the new consistent brands in the home business as well.

And the team is really focused on that and I think in the food business where you see Sam's Choice and Market Side, we've seen very strong growth there that is not only margin accretive but also helps the top line and helps solve the customer solution for immediate satisfaction for a meal or what it might be.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Okay. We will go to Peter Benedict next.

PETER BENEDICT, ANALYST, ROBERT W. BAIRD & CO.: Thanks. Peter Benedict, Robert Baird. Greg, you mentioned a number of times fresh as part of your presentation.

Just curious what you saw in particular about the fresh program, the produce area at Wal-Mart. You know, it was launched last year and, I guess, relaunching at this year. What exactly do you see that you need to change there? Was that the initial product that wasn't correct or was it how you kind of exited the, you know, the program or the items through the season?

And then related to that, do you see any opportunities beyond, kind of, the produce aisle to put fresh? I'm thinking more specifically about the pet food area. Thank you.

GREG FORAN: You know, fresh is a really complex area for any business to run and if you, and I'm sure you do because you look after many retailers out there, it's a competency that takes quite a while to develop.

So the simple answer to your question is that it's not A, it's not B, it's not C, it's not D. It's E, all of the above, is what I see.

I have seen in some of the initial stores that I went into that we were becoming too cluttered in fresh. I want to be able to walk in to the store and I want to be able to see what we want to sell to the customer and as you heard me mention before and it's because of what's happening out there. If you're going there at the moment, you expect to see apples because it's the beginning of the apple season.

I don't want to have to stumble over two pallet of Coca-Cola and three point of sale signs directing me to buy Halloween candy when I want to walk in to produce. That would be the first point.

Second point I'd make is, I think we do a reasonable job with fruit but I do worry about our vegetables and particularly our green leaf vegetables. I think that is a really cue for many customers on freshness. You know, what do you like in asparagus? What's your broccoli like? What's your cauliflower like? When I pick that iceberg lettuce and I look at it, is it one that I'm going to buy or I'm going to start to see it brown on the edges because we haven't rotated it well enough in the store.

Now some of that be an issue with product coming in? Maybe. Haven't had enough time to get in to it. Lease concerned about that, to be honest. You know, Duncan, I think some of that's Okay.

What I do know is we probably carry too much merchandise. When I get in to the backroom and I can tell you, if you want to know how well you do in fresh, just go to the backroom first, that will tell you whether we're on track. Many of our stores get seven-day deliveries. I should not see apart from first thing in the morning or whenever the delivery window is, Chris, I should not see much stock out the back.

I want that product rotated through. I suspect and I don't know because I've only been here at a short time, we might be carrying one, two, three days too much inventory in produce.

Have we got the right labor against it? You know, that's a discussion that Gisel and Judith and I and others are chatting about at the moment. What's the level of the person required to do that? I can tell you that when you're on an automated replenishment system which we are in produce and is that the right replenishment system? Yes, it is, in my view.

If you don't get your perpetual inventory counts right, it ain't going to work. I'm not convinced we have enough discipline around counting inventory in store either monthly or weekly to get that count right.

Or a guy which is in the meat case, now, most of their meat will come from Tysons or Cargill's and Scott and I and Dave who's the meat buyer have been in deep discussion on this in the last two weeks. I don't see the consistency in the cattle. I don't see the trim is good enough upon buying muscle meat as steak, I expect to see the same cut on that meat because when I take it home and fry it and season and I want it medium rare, I want it medium rare all the way through, I don't want it tailored off at the end.

So I think there's opportunities in procurement. I think there's also upstream and I think there's opportunities downstream, none of this is easy to get after but we do know how to do it. And you start one store at a time and you get on with it, you create a store of excellence, don't you, Judith, and then you get people in and it's a never-ending journey. We can do that.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Pete, if you still have the mike, you can give it to Bob and we'll wrap up, Bob, with this as the last question for Wal-Mart US

BOB DRBUL, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Thanks. And it's Bob Drbul from the Nomura Securities. I guess, in the news a lot recently, you have, you know, gas prices falling, oil prices falling and just wondering if you had current thoughts on the Wal-Mart consumer, the shopper on one part of it then the second piece of it is, you know, the oil and gas impact on the operational side.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: So, well, is this working? Yes. We are seeing some forecast out there for the holiday period that I think are very much reflecting the kinds of things that we're seeing in the macro environment and we're looking forward to learning whether our shoppers going to be positively impacted by those things as was said this morning, certainly history would say that that would be a bit of a tailwind for us. So that's good news.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: From an operational side, any -- with all the fuel repurchase either for our private fleet or we pay via our carriers that has a positive impact and obviously fuel prices are down. The other side of that equation right now is the market right now, transportation prices are up because the carrier industry is tight. So it's got a balancing effect is what we see.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Okay. Greg and the Wal-Mart team, thank you very much, and now, we are going to transition over to Sam's Club.

So it give me great pleasure to welcome to the stage the President of CEO of Sam's Club, Roz Brewer.

presentation

ROSALIND BREWER, PRESIDENT & CEO - SAM'S CLUB, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Good morning. At Sam's Club, we're all focused on making membership even more rewarding. So, today, we'll cover the steps we've taken to strengthen our member value proposition as well as our data focus investment strategy.

We will discuss our merchandise transformation and how we're focused on creating more newness more often. We'll also cover our e-commerce enhancements and how we're providing and integrated physical and digital access.

So, now, I want to cover a few things with you on our recent results. We've made a lot of progress but the results show that there's still work to be done. I'm going to use the stoplight approach to breakdown our P&L.

First, I'm happy, I'm happy with our membership income. It grew 11.4% in the first half and that's excluding fuel. I'd give ourselves a green. Part of this growth is from the increase taken last May as we raised our membership fees by $5 for our base members and $10 for business.

The recent launch of plus cash rewards has helped moved our membership trends in the right direction. I'll talk more about that program in just a minute. Continuing through the P&L, I'd give us a yellow, a yellow for sales growth which increase 1.1% excluding fuel.

We started the year with some traffic issues, specifically, with our business member. Our business member remains pressured and traffic trends have showed negative for several quarters now. We're working to evolve with them but it's going to take some time to reverse that trend.

I'll touch on the business member more in just a moment. Softer sales have also pressured our gross profit rate and expenses. Our GP rate declined 39 basis points excluding fuel with a portion attributable to our investment in Plus Cash Rewards.

We planned and we prepared for that expense of cash rewards. However, additional rate pressures from mix and price investments intensified that decline. Because of this, our greater GP rate somewhere between green and yellow.

Expenses, however, had been managed well. Our restructure has simplified our operations without sacrificing our member experience. Expenses did, however, grow at a faster rate and sales which is why I'd give us a yellow.

Operating income declined year-over-year the majority of which was planned due to cash rewards. At the end of the July, inventory was up 4.7% over last year. This is an opportunity and we're working to align our inventory growth with our sales growth going forward.

We're moving in the right direction at Sam's Club, yet there's a need to move faster and faster. Our team has made some recent accomplishments and I'd like to recognize those accomplishments.

Over the last year, we've been making some changes, changes to make Sam's Club membership even more rewarding. Our efforts really focused on three major fronts. First of all, on the merchandising front, we're focused on newness and categories where we introduced newness, we see change. We see stronger comps, stronger traffic, stronger member response and Charles is going to give you an update of some of those examples in just a moment.

Unfortunately, our growth has been tampered by some of our larger core categories like business candy and tobacco. Now, historically, tobacco has been extremely important to our independent mom and pop convenience store owners. However, the rapid expansion of national convenience store chains and increase competition from dollar stores that now sell tobacco has really hurt their business.

So in turn, our tobacco business has run negative comps over the past several quarters. Contributing to the negative business member traffic I mentioned earlier. So we're working hard to address our issues and moving faster to introduce newness and we barely scratched the surface.

Next, Sam's Club aims to be the digital and physical leader among their channel. SamsClub.com is driving members towards online through website, through our mobile web and through mobile app. And Jamie will talk more about our digital and physical growth in just a moment.

We've also made some big improvements on the membership front. Our member base is very valuable to us and we've been making investments to strengthen our offering. Two of those investments were launched just a few months ago.

First, let's talk about our new globally accepted credit card offering which is available to all members. In June, we transitioned to MasterCard, a card with broader brand awareness and acceptance. We also updated our program to be easier for our members to understand and for our associates to sell and I'm proud to say that we have the best cash-back program in the market today.

Unlike our old program, there are no tears and members are rewarded for their everyday spent both inside and outside the Club. So it's a simplified free on cash-back program, 5% on gas, 3% on travel and dining, and 1% on everything else. And it's just that simple.

Let me give you an example of the cash back structure. So if our family spends $1,000 annually on fuel which isn't hard to do, it would easily cover their membership fee. But we didn't stop there. Sam's Club was the first retailer in the United States to offer a card with EMD chip technology protecting our members from fraud.

The value of this program is really resonating with members. We're seeing activations of the new card ramp up from existing members faster than we planned. Meaning, our members like the offer and they're starting to use it. Very excited about it.

Our goal is to make the Sam's Club membership card the most valuable card in your wallet rewarding members for their loyalty. And I mentioned earlier that we took a fee increase last May. It was our first in over six years. And you know, we really didn't want to raise that fee without also improving the value.

So simultaneously, we launched instant savings for all member levels. Instant savings engagement continues to build and member response has been strong.

So as you can see, we've been making improvements strengthening our offering for all members. We saw an opportunity, though, and opportunity to engage and reward our premium members and that tier is critical to us. We know that our plus members on average visit more often, spend more and have higher renewal rates. They also drive higher membership income.

And as the cost of a plus membership is higher than our base offering and because of this, we needed to make our plus offering more valuable. So what do we do? We launched cash rewards.

Unlike instant savings, the Sam's Club MasterCard, this benefit is exclusively, exclusively for our plus members. We diligently tested this program for over a year in our South Central region and we rolled it out to the entire chain over three months ago and here's how it works. Plus members can earn $10 for every $500 they spend and rewards are loaded directly on to their membership cards.

Plus membership are most valuable level of members, now represents a significantly higher percentage of our portfolio growing over 400 basis points since June. This growth has driven a significant increase in current members upgrading to plus and plus members renewing their membership.

Our plus members are extremely valuable to us and we're excited to reward them with this new benefit. Between the Sam's Club MasterCard, Instant Savings and Plus Cash Rewards, we are reinforcing our membership value.

Now, I'd like to talk about how we're working to better understand the needs and behaviors of our members. So on this slide, you'll see just a snapshot of our member base which includes all generations from Boomers to Gen Xers to Millennials and even our small business members.

Like other club channel players, our member base views towards Boomers. Boomers are loyal and important for the entire club channel. However, Boomers are empty or soon to be empty nesters and this means they have less need for bulk.

They are, however, still spending in areas that are relevant to them like health and wellness. We need to meet the needs of boomers. We need to maintain our presence with Gen X and increase our relevancy with Millennials.

The Millennial generation is really good news for Sam's Club. After all, by 2018, this group will represent the majority of the consumer spend. So they seek new and differentiated merchandise. They splurge when it makes sense.

And recently, we still have a chance to spend some time with our Millennial consumers in a focus group and they told us if something is not on their phone, it just doesn't exist in their minds. So not only do they use technology to A, convenience, they expect it to deliver personalization and they want fun and an engaging shopping experience.

Now, we also have a very important member that really spends across all generations and that's our small business member. And a few months ago, I visited a few of our members in their place of business and I learned that our small business members have something very much in common with our millennials and that's the desire to have an engaging shopping experience.

And one owner in the Chicago area showed me that going into the Club was really a retreat for him, a chance to escape, escape while getting things done and accomplished. So further, the use of data and analytics will enable that change and help resonate with both ends of that generational spectrum.

So what does that really mean for our business model in Sam's Club? Well, it means utilizing data better than ever before and by looking really deep, deeper into our member spending behavior.

We're continuing to develop those tools and to do just that, we've developed something called the member engagement platform. We want to move towards more personalized interactions with our members, each and every one of them.

We've always had data and we've used it well. But there is always room to improve while maintaining the necessary controls and safety measures around that. So it's about understanding our members at every stage of the journey. It starts with prospecting. Simply put, it's the general awareness and consideration for the Sam's Club brand.

There's room for improvement here. Then there's acquisition and engagement. While we don't disclose specific numbers, I can tell you that our recent social media acquisition events have helped grow our base. We're focused on meaningful engagement with all of our members so that when the critical moment of truth happens, when it comes around to really thinking about renewing the membership or not, it needs to be a real no-brainer.

Knowing our members helps us grow our member base, driving stronger sales and stronger profit. Hopefully, you're seeing at this point that everything we've done in this past year has been solely about the member.

Now, I'd like to welcome to the stage our Chief Merchandising Officer, Charles Redfield, and he's going to discuss with you how we're making our membership more rewarding and more relevant with great merchandise.

CHARLES REDFIELD, SAM'S CLUB EVP - MERCHANDISING, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Thanks, Roz. Good morning.

You probably heard more than once in that presentation Roz mentioned the word newness, right? So your question may be so why is that important? Well, it actually goes back to what Roz said around that member journey that she just showed you.

Newness creates excitement in the club. Our members tell us that. They show us that.

A traffic, excitement obviously drives traffic, traffic drives engagement, engagement drives retention which is very important for us and ultimately, that drives advocacy.

So, clearly, for us, newness is really, really important. It's also a key part of a merchandise strategy. And this is what I tell you. Where we've executed this really well, it's worked really well.

Roz mentioned it a little bit earlier. So, we'll show a few items right here. So I think about thinking about our business and how weatherproof our business, right? Don't worry about what the weather is.

So when you create newness on item like this which is - this is a Faux Fur Throw. It's 55 x 70 inches, it sells for less than $50 in our club. And when this is new and it hits the club and it hits the club in August and it's 85 degrees outside and our members with the way they responded to an item like this, we know newness can drive the sales, right? Because it's not about the weather, it's about great merchandise at incredible value. That's what it's about newness drives a lot of that.

But here is the issue. You heard Roz just mentioned it and she's exactly right. We have to move faster as a business. There's no doubt about it. And what I'd say, we have to move faster specifically in our BU categories in service.

So let's talk a little bit about how we're going to do that, all right? How we're going to approach this to enable the newness that we have going forward?

Typically, you have the calendar, right? You have spring, summer, fall, holiday, winter. We ship product based on those seasons. It makes a lot of sense.

But what we've done is we've shifted at the first of the season and had that product sell through the entire period until the end of the season. Well, more newness more often, that helps to sprinkle in more newness during those timeframe. Not all the time, we won't do it all the time but definitely more than we've done in the past. It depends on the category.

Some categories, it may be six, every six to eight weeks. Other categories, it may be two to four times a year. Either way, it's going to be more than we've done in the past.

So let's bring this to life a little bit more. So within those seasons, we have major holidays, right? Easter, Thanksgiving, Christmas. Big times of year for us. We can't afford to miss those big holidays because we've become destinations for our members during those key timeframes.

But on top of this, here's what we call micro holidays. These are the things that are like Valentine's Day, Father's Day, Greg -- you're not going to get me to say Mother's Day because I never call Mother's Day a micro event. Sue wouldn't appreciate that.

We buy some unique items for some of these micro events during the year. But most importantly, we just take our existing assortment and what we have on items and merchandising them on days or weeks and help them come to life inside the club. That's how we treat that.

But here's the issue. There's a gap. You see it? This is just one example of a gap. It happens at the end of summer as we've sold through our summer merchandise and yet fall hasn't hit quite yet. Nothing on the calendar would tell you to buy for that specific timeframe.

That's one of the changes that we're making. That we're making to do the feedback from our members. So for instance, in August, a few months ago, we brought in a new home and furniture merchandise and merchandise those at the front of our club. Created excitement and our members responded.

To complement this, last month in September, we brought in our holiday merchandise and set it early. Helped filling that gap. So what we're telling you is one way we're enabling newness is we're looking at the calendar differently. But that's not all we're doing.

More newness more often is also about anticipating key trends. Here's some of them on the screen. Healthy for you. That's just not food, that's also general merchandise. Ready for you or something what I'd like to call on the go because we know we're all time starve like Doug talked about earlier. And finally, exciting for you.

We've got some great new merchandise in the club that fits exactly with these trends. It aligns with what our members are thinking in their busy lifestyles. So we thought about where we'd show some of those items but when you get a optimistic merchant up on stage, we would absolutely run out of time.

So instead, what we decided to do is take two of our key merchants, Shawn Baldwin who runs our food and beverage area for Sam's Club and Cindy O'Connor who runs home, apparel and hard lines. We asked them to take a quick two-minute tour of the club of what you can see right now as it fits with those trends.

Shawn?

SHAWN BALDWIN, SVP GMM-FOOD AND BEVERAGE - SAM'S CLUB, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Thanks, Charles. One of the trends you mentioned earlier that's definitely apparent over here in our dry grocery area is better for you.

Since the beginning of this year we've brought in 40 brand new items that fall into that trend and our members love them. You can see three-quarters of our incremental sales already this year have come from those new better-for-you items. You're going to love that product.

'

CHARLES REDFIELD: Thanks.

SHAWN BALDWIN: You bet. And I'd tell you what, it's exciting as we've got 70 more brand new items coming in between now and the end of this year, and I'm very excited that our members are going to love them, too.

Another trend in food that I'd like to highlight is the change in the way our members are eating throughout the day. Breakfast is still the fastest-growing day part, and I'll show you a couple of things around what's changed around lunch and dinner as well.

This is a perfect example of what our members want for breakfast -- convenience, individually-wrapped. It's mobile. You can eat it on-the-go, which is just like their lifestyles and it's ready in 90 seconds.

For a lot of our members, snacking has replaced lunch time, specifically with better-for-you and slightly indulge in items like this exclusive for Sam's from Brookside, which is dark chocolate enrobed almonds, acai blueberry, and pomegranate.

Really interesting fact that at 4.30 more than half of our members have no idea what they're going to have for dinner. What they're looking for is something convenient, restaurant quality and flavor that's affordable. Where else at Sam's Club could you treat a family of four fettuccine Alfredo for less than $2.50 a serving.

CINDY O'CONNOR: Our healthy-for-you trend is also very important in apparel.

Tangerine is one of our newest brands, and it's produced by one of our women-owned businesses who specializes in active wear. The bright colors and the [trend-right] fabrics are amazing. The quality is just fantastic.

We easily offer a 50% value compared to active national brands, and most items are priced under $20.

Exciting for you is our third trend. This year we set Christmas in the clubs in early September to bring a new and exciting look inside the clubs. And the easiest way to adorn your home for the holidays is with our Christmas decor offering. And within the collection you'll see a beautiful assortment of wreaths and garland. And we've modified our packaging this year so we've made a solution for our member by providing the lid on all the packaging so it's easy to put away after the holidays are over.

At Sam's Club, our members would like the healthy-for-you, ready-for-you, and exciting-for-you.

And now it's back to you, Charles.

CHARLES REDFIELD: Isn't merchandising fun? That's what we do. We love to do it. What do we manage to take away? We're making changes. We're making changes on how we look at the calendar, and I just showed you one example today. We're making changes on how we anticipate trends. That's the second thing we're doing.

But the bottom line is we're going to continue to do it even faster. After all, bottom line is our members expect great merchandise and great values.

But that's not all they expect. They also expect anytime, anywhere access. So next up is Jamie Iannone, our president and CEO of samsclub.com. Jamie?

JAMIE IANNONE: Thank you, Charles. Good morning everyone.

You know, as our members are evolving and increasing their digital engagement, so too are the investments that we're making in samsclub.com and enhancing our members' digital and physical experience. We're translating our strong understanding of the member journey into a robust strategy by category for online engagement. This in turn is leading to more digital purchases from our members.

In fact, last quarter, samsclub.com contributed about 30 basis points to the total segment comp. And digital is helping to attract new members. Roz discussed the importance of millennials.

We're leveraging the powerful intersection of our digital platforms, our clubs, and our associates to provide a new level of convenience and access for our members, and our members are responding to these investments.

In Q2, both our direct-to-home business, our e-commerce business as well as our Club Pickup business delivered double-digit sales growth.

Last quarter, conversion rates approved across all of our key platforms and our investments in digital laid the foundation and created a platform for accelerated digital and physical growth for Sam's Club.

Now a critical focus for us this year has been on our mobile platforms. Mobile is becoming increasingly important to members especially to millennials, and we are seeing this as strong growth rates in both usage and in web traffic.

Mobile helps us provide anywhere, anytime access to shopping Sam's Club or building your next Club Pickup order. It gives you the ability to sell an expanded assortment of items with the great items and great values that Charles just talked about, and it gives the ability to deliver our personalized experience tailored to each and every individual (technical difficulty).

One member said, "This app has revolutionized how I grocery shop. I wish all stores would offer an app like this."

With our new iPhone app members now have a powerful Sam's Club right in their pocket. They can use it as their membership card when they walk into a club. They can access new merchandise in a wider assortment. They can upgrade or renew their membership. They can manage their shopping list, order photo prints, and so much more.

And if the members track for time they can use it to build their Club Pickup list. Club Pickup is a program, which we have previously called Click 'n' Pull, and we've redesigned significantly.

Starting this holiday, we're launching many new enhancements to revamp Club Pickup, to make it much simpler for our members. It's a service that our business members have loved, and we're expanding the program to make it appeal to all members.

It starts with a new online ordering tool, which we'll be launching this holiday. Through this tool, a member can easily reorder from everything that they've ever bought (technical difficulty) that are in club or online and do it really quickly. They can do it during a commercial of their favorite TV sitcom.

We've also created a pickup experience in the club that is designed to get the member in and out in minutes with all of their Sam's Club items. This includes new check-in kiosks at all of our clubs that'll be rolled out this holiday. And we're also piloting in one of our clubs, actually in this club here in Bentonville we're piloting a test of drive-thru to make the experience even faster for our members and we're watching the experience and how that goes, and I encourage you to check it out while you're here in town.

Now to bring these experiences to life for Sam's member, let me show you an example of a Sam's Club mom through her Club Pickup journey. Let's roll the video.

(Video Playing)

ROSALIND BREWER: So as you can see, we're connecting the digital and the physical worlds better than ever before. So while integration is clearly our priority for our investment and physical clubs will also continue.

Over the past few years, we've really accelerated our club openings. In fact, we finished fiscal year '14 with 20 grand openings, 69 remodels, and additional 1.7 million square feet of selling space.

We will have similar results this year in terms of the number of grand openings. Starting in Q3, our new club openings incorporate several layout improvements including an expanded fresh area and a combined health and wellness solution center, aligning with our merchandising plan. These updates really enhance the member shopping experience and drive sales while leveraging our labor efficiencies.

So going forward, we will be doing all of this with less capital than the recent run rate. We will be reducing the number of new club openings for next year while simultaneously accelerating technology investments that integrate our physical and digital locations and our capabilities in addition to investing in membership and merchandising initiatives. And Charles Holley will discuss that more in a moment.

So as you can see, we're driven to create member value in a whole different space bringing in a club and an online experience together in a way that no other club channel retailer has done before. So you can see probably and even feel some of the excitement that we're experiencing right now in our merchandising team. And it's really brought the business into a whole new phase of really supporting new merchandise in the clubs.

I'm personally excited about what's happening with our organic food and our seasonal businesses, really important to our member.

So in closing, what I'd like for you to take away from what you heard today is that Sam's Club to the core is very strong. And what we're building today will deliver an even stronger and even more exciting Sam's Club tomorrow.

And with that, I'd like to invite my team back up to the stage. Michael Dastugue, our CFO, will join us as well as we entertain some questions.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay. Just a reminder please to wait for the mic. State your name and your firm. And we will start with Paul Trussell first.

Michael, you can...

PAUL TRUSSELL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you. Paul Trussell, Deutsche Bank. A few quick ones. First, as we think about the 11% MFI increase, if you can just give us a little bit of color of the breakdown on how much of that is related to the raise in fee versus of the direction of actual new members per club.

Also on Club Pickup, how does that alter the labor model and the expense structure of the club? Is there any fee for the customer to utilize that service?

And then lastly, food and perishables is a very critical category for warehouse clubs. What metrics do you have or how do you gauge your price assortment and quality of your food and perishables versus Costco and regional grocery stores? Thank you.

ROSALIND BREWER: Okay. Paul, I'll take the first question and it was around MFI and our percentage of breakdown. And we typically don't break that down in our earnings announcements. But I can tell you that we are experiencing year-over-year growth with that renewal fee.

It's been an advantage for us, but we're also seeing growth in what's happening in our Plus member upgrades, so you can look at those two as pretty strong contributors to that performance.

I'm going to ask Jamie to talk a little bit about the Club Pickup.

And then, Charles, you can talk a little bit about the assortment.

JAMIE IANNONE: Yes. Simultaneous to this rollout, we've actually been working on the productivity for our associates in club of actually picking items. So this holiday we're rolling out a new backend system to make that much more efficient and improve their ability to be more productive in pulling together those items.

The other big changes like a kiosk check-in actually take time away from the membership service desk of having to check in a member know they are there, so it actually saves the member time and actually saves us time to do it. It's why we're really excited by the program. So these things are working together. The re-launch of the frontend stuff and the backend stuff will happen at the same time starting this holiday.

CHARLES REDFIELD: Yes. And, Paul, [for sure] exactly right. We're very focused on that. Our members respond to this. They've [done] a long turn. They respond to this by coming back and visiting.

But what we've done is we have test kitchen -- we have kitchens within our home office in Sam's Club and we continually do testing on our product -- existing, new product that we're thinking about, but also competitor's product. We do it both in the office, out in the field, and we look at that to make sure we're keeping up with this and making sure that the experience that our members get is what they exactly deserve, right? Because in fresh, for Sam's Club, price is the most important thing.

Our members tell us time and time again I want to have a great experience from quality, so all categories aren't created equal. All items aren't created equal. And how we look at it, we look at it exactly that way, and you think of fresh and perishables, we take the quality aspect first and we do a lot of testing both internally and externally.

ROSALIND BREWER: I think it's important when you think about Sam's, the price leadership is important, but we also talk a lot about value because we do offer such a great quality in some of those categories, so it's a value equation call as well as just direct price leadership.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay. We'll go to Greg next.

Kary, if you could reach Greg or Paul. Thanks.

GREG MELICH, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hi, it's Greg Melich with ISI. Roz, a bit of a follow-up on the prior question and then a second one. In terms of the membership growth, you said you're getting that nice mix shift into the Plus. Are the overall number of members growing or are they actually declining even if people that value the membership want to engage even more? And then the second I had a follow-up -- another question.

ROSALIND BREWER: Yes. One of the things to think about in our membership piece is that we have this exposure to our business member, and I've talked about their softness with the business member, so that is the area if I had any concern in terms of where our membership is going is with our business member. Otherwise, we're seeing really a nice growth in the other aspects of our MFI.

GREG MELICH: That's right. That's very helpful. And then secondly on the new program, the Pickup, that had to put in your car kind of thing, is that happening...

ROSALIND BREWER: Put into car kind of thing.

GREG MELICH: ...at every club at a certain point this time or is it sort of -- how do we roll that out and actually execute it for us?

JAMIE IANNONE: Like Judith was talking about for Wal-Mart, this is one of our test and learn initiatives. So we just launched it recently here in Bentonville. We have it running and it's open to all members at this point. We started internally, and the member response has been great. So we're evaluating and continuing to learn and looking at rolling that out.

All of the other changes that I talked about are rolling out nationwide this holiday. So we'll have kiosks in every one of our clubs so members can check in. All of the new frontline tools that we talked about, a new easy reordering experience, that will be live.

We've actually changed the program in many other ways. We've brought in a lot more items that members can now use like weighted items and seasonal items, items that have never been available for Club Pickup and a host of other changes. So it's essentially a re-launch and all of those get the 700 clubs.

The drive-thru is still a test that we're doing in Bentonville. And as we have more updates on that, we'll let you know.

ROSALIND BREWER: I will say that, Greg, some of the indications and what's sending us in this direction is just the conversations we're having with our members and their need for convenience. And they're telling us how they want to access.

It starts somewhat around our business member, but then we're learning that moms want the same kind of convenience, so we're trying to respond to the convenience demand that we're seeing from our members, and so these are pilots that will hopefully turn into an opportunity for us.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay, Bob, I think you already have the mic.

BOB DRBUL: I stole it from Greg. Just a question on the pay later feature on the website. What's the experience there from the baskets that aren't picked up and how you really deal with that from a membership perspective?

JAMIE IANNONE: Yes, great question. Most of our club pick has been pay-in club. So today with the drive-thru test, for example, we've actually built a new mobile payment processing where the associate walks out to your car and can process your payment right there.

We are actually in pilot now on prepaid functionality so that you can pay on the web and pickup in club. And so as we get through the pilot stages we'll roll that out to all clubs as well, and so a member will have both options.

What's great about the second option, what we're seeing in the pilot is that you can use an authorized pickup person to go pick it up. So if I'm a business member and I want to send somebody else from the business to go pickup the order, you would now handle that because you can have an authorized pickup person. So that's in pilot now. We'll be rolling out of the course of the next several months.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Dan, is that you? We'll go to Dan upfront.

DANIEL BINDER, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Dan Binder with Jefferies. If we were to compare your results to the main competitor and there's been a bit of a gap way, could you draw a comparison just in general if you go back over the years the sales for club are lower, is this a function of the real estate, the demographic of the club member? Is it merchandising operations? Can you just help us understand...

ROSALIND BREWER: Yes.

DANIEL BINDER: ...what that reflects?

ROSALIND BREWER: That's a good question. There are some differences between, first of all, our real estate footprint in our competition. They're heavily focused on the West Coast and the northeast, and we do not have club concentration in those areas, so that is the difference -- totally different member particularly on the West Coast. Deep density, higher income levels in that area, and we're not in that space.

The second piece I will tell you that's the difference between ourselves and our other competitor is our reliance on our business member. And we have more exposure to the business member category, and I'll share with you where the softness is in that category, so we are actually experiencing more pressure in that area than our competitors.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: [Mike]?

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you. Just a question on inflation, can you remind us what you're seeing now across the club? And what are your buyers telling you about how that looks and then a follow-up?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I think when you look across the boxes it's probably averaging low single-digits. But clearly, things like meat and dairy are up in the high single-digits, and then you got deflation in your technology.

So I think we've seen that a situation where we have had probably caused inflation that has been exceeding our retail inflation, so we have to make sure they were passing on the best value to our members. So that's been part of our margin issue here at the last couple of quarters.

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: And just as you look ahead in the coming months, is that an equation that you see sort of continuing in terms of similar levels of inflation? And also can you speak to price gaps, how you feel your price relative to peers at this point?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: As I say, I think for right now I think we would expect status quo in terms of that context. And I think from a pricing perspective we feel pretty good that we're at price parity right now with our key competitors.

CHARLES REDFIELD: And significantly higher versus other channels.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Yes.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Chris?

CHRISTOPHER HORVERS, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks. Chris Horvers, JPMorgan. Following up on the membership question, are you surprised that the business member hasn't responded more to the Plus program? I assume you might spend more than your average customer on an annual basis. And it sounds like the growth is converging and renewal within the existing days. How are you taking a message of this new offering to the outside world?

ROSALIND BREWER: Yes. So a couple of things. One, the business member, I think that their financial constraints are an issue. But how we're talking about this, there's a couple of things with the business member, too, I should mention. The things that we're doing from a digital perspective were getting great response, probably more response in that area than what we had anticipated, so the business member is responding to those that are shopping with us right now to our online and digital work that we're doing.

The other piece that I would tell you around the business member, you asked a question about how are they getting the message just overall even beyond our business member.

And we're doing some messaging. We're talking to our folks online, digital one-to-one. We had a lot of our NPR. We've done some radio pieces on it, so we're talking about it, about the work they were doing in terms of the new offerings that we have.

And one of the things that helped us was the personalization work that we're doing so we're having more one-to-one conversations than you really see us do broad television advertisements. That's really not our space to do TV advertisement. That's why this member engagement platform is important to us because that one-to-one makes all the difference for our business.

CHRISTOPHER HORVERS: Thanks.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay. We're going to wrap up the Q&A for Sam's Club now. Thanks, Roz and the team.

We do have a short 15-minute break scheduled. Our management team will be available to speak with you and answer some follow-up questions. Please be back in 15 minutes. And then we will kick-off at that point within our national. Thank you.

(BREAK)

presentation

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Welcome back to Wal-Mart's Investment Community Meeting. Thank you all for coming back on time from the break.

Before we get underway with our next session, I would like to -- and if you guys can bring up the house lights for a minute please. I'd like to introduce the Investor Relations team.

On this side, my left, your right, I'd like to introduce Michael Brigance and Miguel Garcia in the back and then on the opposite side, Kary Bruner. And I'd also like to introduce and ask Mariana Rodriguez to stand.

Mariana, for those of you who don't know, heads up our investor relations effort in Walmex. So we wanted to make sure that you know the key members of our team here, and we're here to help service all of your needs.

A couple of other things. You heard both in the Wal-Mart US section as well as in Sam's Club a lot about merchandise. Doug likes to remind us pretty regularly -- right, Doug -- that we're all merchants.

And while you saw a couple pieces of merchandise on the stage I remind you during the breaks we have merchandise up here, including the top toys and some of the top items that will be available in our stores and clubs for the holidays, so you can certainly take a chance to check those out on one of the breaks.

One last question that I've gotten a few times during the break is how do I get the slides. The easiest way to do that is to go to stock.Wal-Mart.com. And on the page that will come up right in front of you is the information for this meeting.

If you open that up, there are several buttons across the bottom, and you'll see both the video of the live video webcast as well as the slides. And if you click on the button that says Downloads, that will get you to the slides and you're able to download each of the presentations immediately at the end of that presentation.

So with that, I'd like to get underway with the next portion of our meeting, which is Wal-Mart International. I'm very happy to call to the stage Dave Cheesewright, president and CEO of Wal-Mart International. Dave?

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT, PRESIDENT, CEO - WAL-MART INTERNATIONAL, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Well, good morning, everybody. By my reckoning I'm now the third speaker who has English as a foreign language.

It's actually been really interesting as you go through the year and Greg will empathize with this as you go through in your use of phrase that you're used to growing up and you can see this array of blank faces. So -- Greg and I do a bit self-help on this. PDQ is pretty darn quick, I think.

Is that right, Doug? Yes, yes, so we'll get that one right.

Okay. So Wal-Mart International, I think three things I'd like you to remember of our business. The first is we've got a solid start for the year, but we got lots more to do, and Brett will talk to you in a bit more detail later on about some of the numbers.

But we're particularly pleased that we've seen an improvement in our underlying comp sales. We're particularly pleased that we finished the first half of the year with profit growing ahead of sales. We have a lot of work to do on working capital.

So number one, solid start for the year, but lots more to do.

Number two, we've got a very clear strategy and we are very clear on what priorities we need to be focused on. We've completed a pretty comprehensive portfolio review as part of the enterprise strategy work. I'll share some of the details with you in just a minute. And so that's given us real clarity about what works for us and particularly with what's changing for customers in the future and where we need to position. So number two, we got a very clear strategy and it's prioritized.

Number three is that you'll find us focus on the basics. And we are going to be relentlessly focusing on execution in two real dimensions. The first is execution of our strategy and making sure that those priorities come to life.

But the second and a very consistent them with Doug's opening and some of the words that Greg talked about, we're going to be very focused on retail basics, and whether it's the US or the international markets I get to walk around, it's rarely that I see a store or a website with our own opportunities to improve the offer for customers across the four dimensions that Doug talked about.

So three messages -- good start for the year, but lots more to do; very clear plan, which we're going to share with you now; and we're going to be very focused on execution.

For the rest of the session, I'm going to briefly introduce the team. We'll spend a bit of time talking about our overall strategic framework. We'll run through a few of the operational priorities that we've focusing on in the future. And we'll just cover our five big markets today.

There are about 80% of our sales. It doesn't mean to say that the other markets aren't important. I'm more than happy to take questions on those as we get into the Q&A at the end, but they're the big markets that we'll focus on.

So let's start with the team. And I've got most of the leadership team up here. Some of them are with us today. But I'm really pleased with the team that we've got in International. And actually the whole group were part of the international team last year, although including myself about 50% of us are in new roles.

There's a lot of experience and we always get slightly depressed when you do the stats about how many years of experience we've got. But I think most importantly for this group is a lot of experience in the industry at large, so across various different functions and various different formats, and some genuine experience of international, both living and working abroad.

Brett joined the team earlier on this year around the same time as me. He got a huge experience in Wal-Mart. He was in International a while ago. Brett did a lot of work on M&A in the mid-2000's, had a stint in Sam's in operations, and then joined us from CFO over the Wal-Mart US business, have that huge impact in the course of this year particularly at bringing our commercial slant to our finance organization and building some strong controls.

Scott Price, as you all know, has been in many of these meetings. He's run our Asia business. I think, in fact, Scott is today the day of your fifth anniversary at Wal-Mart. Okay. Congratulations, so five years at Wal-Mart, and as I say most of time in Asia. He has a long career in Asia with Coke and DHL prior to that.

Lots of experience in Asia and a very good operator. He's heading up most of our central functions now in the support center in Bentonville, and again making remarkable progress aligning and ensuring that we're working on our priorities.

Shelley Broader again you have seen in this environment before. She's been CEO in Canada for a couple of years now, did a great job there for the last couple of years and has recently been promoted to run our Europe, Middle East, and Africa business. Shelley gained a lot of experience in retail. She grew up running food retailers in the southeast of the US under the Delhaize organization, spent a time as COO with Michael's, and we were lucky enough to hire her into Canada via Sam's Club four years ago.

And then finally from the operational side, Enrique Ostale joined us as part of the Lider acquisition in Latin America and now runs our Latin American operation. A lot of experience in retail across a number of different formats and really starting to make some good progress in that region.

Across the bottom, Maggie Sans from Corporate Affairs. Maggie is with us today.

Daniel Trujillo from our Compliance organization, and again a lot of global experience and a lot of experience in Compliance.

And finally, Tim Cheatham has been head of our legal function for the last four years in International. So very pleased with the team, a lot of experience, and a very, very strong team.

Now I thought I'd start to just say a couple of words about Wal-Mart International. I'm sure there's a few of you here who haven't been to these sessions, so I won't take too long, but it's useful to get a bit of background on the business. So I think you could really sum up Wal-Mart International with two words -- it's big and it's diverse.

We serve about 120 million customers every week, so [lower] only about a third of sales, we're about half of the customer traffic. So typically smaller basket sizes, which probably wouldn't surprise you given some of the markets in which we operate.

We'll be around about $140 billion this year. That would make us the second largest retailer in the world, just outside the top 10 in terms of overall business size. And one of the unique things is we actually have five of the world's top 10 retail businesses in our portfolio, so a lot of best practice. We had a very strong record of growth, but we've seen that slow over the last couple of years.

We're a multi-format business. We operate in 26 different countries. We have many different formats about 15 core formats that some that you'd know really well like supercenters and Sam's Clubs under the Wal-Mart banner, but there's a lot that you'd be less familiar with.

We have a big Builders Merchant chain in South Africa. We run small kiosks in Japan. So quite a wide range of portfolios.

We're smallest skewed in the US business. Around a third of our stores are under 25,000 square feet, so much more average size and quite a lot of small stores in our portfolio.

We have about 750,000 associates around the globe. And I think that degree of diversity is good and bad. It's one of the reasons why many that I think I've got the best job in the world, and I get to travel across a lot of countries, and there are a few things that you see that are very similar. There's lots of things that are very different.

The people tend to be remarkably similar wherever you travel across Wal-Mart's international businesses, and it really doesn't take - I often joke with Doug. You can take me in, blindfold me, allow me to talk to a few people, and I can tell you whether I'm in a Wal-Mart business because you meet people like you. People are pretty down-to-earth. They're very focused on saving people money. They're very competitive. So lots of similarities in the culture wherever we operate. Pretty similar business models, but very different executions.

And if some days that can be frustrating, it'd be great if we were more aligned sometimes and that's something we'll work on, but it really does give us an edge in innovation. And one of the things you frequently find in International is it's pretty rare you come across a business problem that someone in our portfolio hasn't already solved. And you'll hear examples of that today whether it's ASDA's growth in home shopping.

There's lots of learnings that we can take across our businesses there. Private label is another area we're strong in certain parts of the world. So very diverse portfolio, has good and bad things to that.

Okay. Just Wal-Mart International, let's talk about our strategy and we're going to use the framework that Doug shared with you last year.

Retail is a pretty simple business, and we like to keep things simple. So we're focused on two things. We want to be in good businesses and we want to run them well.

Be in good businesses is about the portfolio and that's about the markets and formats that we operate in. And we've talked a lot over this year about positioning. I'm going to come on in a minute to share with you a pretty thorough review that we've done of the portfolio.

Now positioning is really, really important because when you look back in history, I think all of us assume that a lot of growth comes from capital investment, M&A activity, and new store builds. And we also assume that a lot comes from competitiveness. That's how well you comp against competitors, how well you take market share.

But history would tell you that positioning is probably the biggest factor for growth, and positioning is about have I got my businesses in areas that I'm naturally going to grow. So you'll hear us all talk a lot about positioning and trying to understand where the customer is moving to and making sure that we're adapting the portfolio to work towards areas that are going to have natural growth in the future. That's really important for us.

In terms of running the businesses well and being a best-in-class retailer you can see a really simple diagram there that shows what we focus on. And again no surprises here. It will be pretty similar to a lot of retail businesses around the world.

The first area is about growth. So we are very passionate about driving comp sales wherever we operate. It's our favorite type of growth. It's the most productive type of growth, very hard to run a low-cost business if you're not growing strongly. And I'll talk to you about some of the initiatives across International in a minute on driving comp growth.

But we also want new growth. And for Brett's leadership and Scott's on the real estate function, we've done a lot of work over the course of this year to try and understand market by market, what are the golden principles that allow us to deliver successful new growth.

Very easy to open new stores. It's much harder to open new stores that are going to give you good returns over a long period of time. So understanding the correct sizes, what locations make a difference, where the traffic is going to go is something we've leaned into very hard. And as the customer is changing quicker than ever, it's really important we stay on top of that. So growth is one part of our plan.

The second part then is enablers. So you got to pay for that and you got to execute it. So we talk a lot about the productivity loop and being the lowest cost operator wherever we operate is essential if you want to sell for less.

We also need talent to deliver our plans. So they are our enablers.

And then the third green on this one is trust and whether that's trust of stakeholders or trust of our associates in our business, or trust of our customers. The size of Wal-Mart and the scrutiny we're under we have to build trust wherever we operate.

So for the next part of the session we're just going to run through those various areas and give you a few examples of some of the things that we're focused on across International.

Let's start with the portfolio, and it's a bit of an eye chart, just one way of looking at it. But this is from year-end monitor, it looks at the next five years it looks about -- it looks at where they predict the growth is going to come from. There'll be loads of different spins on this, but I think it will tell a story.

They had estimated that there's around $5.5 trillion dollars of retail growth on the planet every retailer over the next five years, and this breaks it down across the basic elements of the portfolio -- the markets, the formats, and the categories.

And a few bits I'll pick out. First of all, in the markets, including the US, Wal-Mart has access to over 50% of global retail growth. That's pretty good coverage for any other retailer, very good coverage.

The next three are another 15%. They are Iran, Venezuela, and Russia. And, Doug, they are not high at my to-do list of places to go just at this moment.

So I think the first message you can take now on the portfolio is we're pretty happy with the markets we're in. We'll still keep looking around the globe and if fantastic opportunities come up that work for customers in our business, we'll look at them, but we're going to be more focused on doing a good job in the markets that we're in rather than going anywhere new.

What we will look at is the balance of our portfolio. So what we tend to be as overweight in countries that are growing slowly like the UK and Canada and underweight in the countries that are growing more rapidly like China, India, Brazil. We'll take our time and we'll make sure we build solid foundations there, but you'll see us move capital across those two parameters over a period of time.

As far as formats are concerned, again we're not in a bad position. We got access to the majority of growth through the main formats.

There are two formats as a main priority for us. Driving e-commerce quickly is going to be one and we'll talk about that in a bit more detail. And hypermarkets is the second one. That's our big stores.

And a couple of things to say there. When you look at the numbers for hypermarkets, there's more than a third of $1 trillion of growth predicted in the next five years, so it's a sector in which we are very dominant. It's a sweet spot for us. There's a lot of growth to come there.

What I think you'll hear is talk about a lot on hypermarkets is accelerating innovation. You know there's been some traffic troubles on those for a while, and the work that we're doing to drive innovation in those boxes, particularly in terms of driving traffic is going to be something we're very focused on over the next three or four years.

On supermarkets, there's a lot of growth coming from supermarkets. We play in the area quite a lot and international ready. It plays out in lots of different formats, in some maybe what you'd call traditional supermarkets, certainly in Latin America or in the developing markets. It is very much about the discount supermarkets, the bodegas and the [Todogeas] of the world.

Finally, just a comment on in terms of mom-and-pop stores, it's a big growth area. More than half of that is India. And, of course, we're in cash-and-carry in that market. Anyway, that's our format, so we are serving the area. It's just not our biggest priority.

And then finally on categories, you can see why winning on food is really important. It's the vast majority of growth, and I'm going to talk about that a bit more in a couple of minutes.

So there's our portfolio review. Let's run on and talk about some of the operational priorities. You'll hear us consistently talk about three things -- we're going to drive comp sales by our price leadership and good category management; we will execute our strategic priorities; and we want to deliver our enablers. And I'll just run through a few of those over the next five minutes or so.

Let's start with comp sales. And the first is let's talk about price. So we will continue to drive comp sales through price leadership.

Doug said it very well at the start. Price is important. It always will be important when your business's purpose is to save people money and when your business is serve the value-conscious customer. So that will remain a focus for us.

We're talking -- in terms of EDLP, the pyramid here I think shows you in a bit of detail the way we think about the journey through EDLP, and you have to build solid foundations, which is why it's a pyramid if you want to get to EDLP.

I always think back to the early days of Wal-Mart. Sam Walton had a business that had strategically the lowest cost base by quite some way. He had a reputation as a price leader, but he would still tell you -- I remember talking to Jack Schumacher about this that even with those two employees it took seven years to really get to pure EDLP. So it's a long journey.

And I think what you'll see from us is a much more balanced approach that says when we very focused in markets like Brazil ensuring we got the lowest cost base, we'll continue to start investing that in an appropriate way to drive price leadership. And only when those foundations are built we'll move towards the pure elements of EDLP. So a pragmatic journey I think would be our summary on EDLP.

Three things are pulled out in terms of things that we're working on around the world. The first is price measurement. If you want to be the price leader, it's really important that you know where you sit. And we've seen significant improvements over this year. We have a full spectrum.

So if I'm talking to Neil about our price measurement, he's got millions of items across the Internet. He can change them every five minutes if he wants to, but we have a range from ASDA where it's pretty robust, it's net based. You got a full assortment down to somewhere it's much more basic and you've got limited assortments and price perception.

But what we're building across every market is a robust and consistent way of measuring price and most importantly, the infrastructure that sits behind that that means there is a rigorous attritional focus on looking at those price gaps week in, week out, looking at where the competitors have moved, taking actions and driving them through our business so that over an extended period of time we see our price position move forward and forward. So price measurement is really important both perception and reality.

In-store communication is really about body language, and what we want to see in all of our countries is we want to see our price perception better than our price reality, and that's a lot about the way you present in stores.

So you can see a picture here. It's from our stores in Asia. We like big bulb displays. They talk about value. We like price points. We like color ways that stand out and make you feel its value.

And you pretty much see around our international business now. Red and yellow is the color ways that we use. We have expanded the best practice from some of their markets. We got very good body language to drive price perception.

And then finally, price guarantees are really important. Again, a real spectrum of continuity. ASDA have a very automated price guarantee, but in some markets that could be as simple as seasonal events where you've got just a simple comp checking program.

Now on all of these, what I think you'll start to see is this is a theme I think for our whole business is the technology that's springing up from Neil's organization is allowing us as we build these foundations to use the interaction between physical and digital, to start automating some of the algorithmic capability that Neil's team can beat to move forward on these areas, and that's the theme across a lot of different aspects of our business.

Okay. So let's move on now and talk about some of the basics of our core offer.

Okay. What miss -- so Doug. I knew I'd miss this. Very quick a slide, we were chatting before about the presentation and Doug said to me -- you really should have a video in here to make it more fun and emotional. And I said to Doug -- would that mean I'm not fun and emotional in my own right? And as we were going through, I said -- I'm going to forget that video that Doug asked me to do.

So anyway, Doug, here is the fun and emotional video on pricing. Okay?

(Video Playing)

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: Did I hit the mark, Doug? Yes, like it. Yes, I don't have quite -- but the rest is in my favor. I'm not quite sure how that fits?

Okay. Let's move on to some of the cores of our business.

So retail foundations are really important across our business. And I'm not going to go through all of these, but I just pick out a few that we started to build across our markets.

Charles is very good at reminding us that everything starts with a customer. And if you want to focus your business around the customer you really have to know what's on the customer's mind. So customer insight is a really important part of the capabilities that we're expanding across our international business.

Now, again we have the advantage that we've got different stages of development in our markets. In some stages, it's very mature. Our insights in some it's pretty basic. The one you see up on the screen here is a dashboard from the Canadian business, but whether it's customer listing groups or whether it's Nielsen analytics or whether it's Internet capability, Neil, that we're starting to get from the organization in GeC.

We're building over a period of time capabilities, which allow our markets to put the customer at the center of the decision-making. We have an organization that places autonomy near the customer. If we can truly understand that customer that makes us have better businesses.

A couple of examples where we're seeing good progress. The Baby in Chile, [Jane Uhing], who sits in Judy's team now, led a project to look at Baby as a global category. Clearly, it's a really important area for us.

Young moms, there's a time when you're under stress typically, economically, saving money becomes really important. And what Jane did is pull together all the best thinking from around the globe around how we manage that category. They looked at assortment. They looked at offer. They looked at the way we presented. They looked at pricing. They looked at private label. And Enrique took that and put it in the Chile business, which was actually pretty strong on Baby already, had around a third of the market in terms of share.

They added extra assortment. They took the Parent's Choice brand from the UK and from the US and directly imported that. And in space of six months there were 100 basis point improvement in their market share. That's just one example, but you'll see examples like that through our merchant forums changing around the globe.

Seasonal is another area. Wherever we operate we tend to be pretty dominant on seasonal. And what you see through our merchant's collaboration is looking for areas where we have specific expertise. So, for example, if you want to know about winter ranges, go talk to the Canadians. They do winter very, very well. So we're using them as experts.

And rather in each country trying to develop winter ranges, the Canadian team develops the winter range. The buy trips are coordinated so all our buyers from around the world will go on those trips, and they'll just dovetail into the best practice that we've already taken from those markets. So it's very interesting to see how some of these examples share for market-to-market.

So when we are in Mexico a couple of weeks ago, we saw a big harvest display Enrique. Now harvest was never particularly an event in Latin America. The team saw that, but there was an opportunity to try that. They have now built a nice business there.

Finally around category innovation, I just picked out a couple of examples. And as we start to accelerate innovation in our supercenters and our larger stores, you'll see a share in these examples from around the world. The top one is ASDA.

ASDA is a very big gas business, and that's a great traffic driver to the big stores, so that's something I know, Greg, you and I have talked about as an opportunity for traffic. But we're also developing standalone gas stations in the UK. And a lot of the learning there and the synergy between pickup points and gas stations is very strong. They're typically in locations where there's a high degree of traffic. People stop a lot at gas stations to fill up and very convenient for them to pick up groceries and other goods at the same time.

And then the bottom one I know this was touched on in the US session, clinics, third great traffic driver. We have over 50 clinics in our Canadian business, and we see significant increases in our script counts in those areas. So a couple of examples of best practice that we can share.

On the right-hand side of the chart, you see merchant tools and we've got merchant tools in our businesses already. But I think one of the most exciting things that we're seeing, I think Doug touched on it at the start of the session that merchandising is typically a balance between art and science.

And certainly, one of the things that blows me away whenever I take a trip over to San Bruno and visit with Neil's team is their ability to understand the science, to use data and algorithmics and automate processes just blows me away. They can handle capacity that I'm just not used to in the world that I grew up in.

Equally, we've got 50 years worth of experience of our, and I think the sweet spot of us working together across that kind of mouth and street smarts that's been built up over a period of time, and then using data and algorithmics to put solutions in, and maybe it's just directed work or maybe it's full automation, I think, can give us transformational capabilities in categories like buying, pricing, modular planning, replenishment, and availability.

To finish on some of the merchandising areas by talking a little bit about winning in food. You saw how big the growth is in food or around the globe. And it's really important we win there. Like Greg, I'm very passionate about fresh.

Once again, it's an area where we got good capabilities to copy and replicate around the world. So what you've got on the left there is just the diagram that shows you our IPL business in the U.K. IPL is International Procurement and Logistics. And it's as vertically integrated produce sourcing hub. So what they do is they run a series of offices primarily around Europe and Africa which finds -- works in partnership with growers around that region and find the right source of products.

They have moved it into the market. So interestingly, what they then do is take some very thoughtful decisions about way you convert that product. So, you know, do you pick mushroom to the field and ship them whole and slice them locally or do you slice them at the field?

You're trading off two things in that process. One is cost, that quite often it's cheaper to do the work at source when they're at the field but then you pay a penalty in transport because you need to be shipping a lot more fresh air.

The second is as important as freshness. The products got to die the second you pick it. Once you start to process it, it dies more quickly. So what we've been able to do is make thoughtful decisions about where is work done, and in many cases, we move the work closer to the market so we get fresher products arriving in the countries and we take cost out the supply chain.

Over the course of the last 10 years, IPL has been in existence. IPL is now the single biggest supplier to any retailer in the UK, it is own right and solely does Asda and it's there to substantially reduce the cost base.

So that's the best practice that you'll start to see us deploy around the globe. We've got sourcing covered through GFS in North America and IPL across the rest of the world but that choiceful approach, the way you do the conversion is something that we can replicate in our countries and it gives us a big advantage on freshness and costs.

The second, and again, Greg, touched on this is the importance of private label, and again, we have a huge portfolio. The U.K. has been developing private label for a long time. They're in the mid-40s in terms of penetration of private label. So as you can see from the chart, huge variances across international, our average ex the U.K. is about 6.8%, so big opportunity to develop that.

If you grow up in food, you tend to be very supported of private label. And if you're a business, your job is to save customer's money and you know you can sell them the product that's exactly the same quality or better than the brand. The quality is really, really important but save the customer around 20% in terms of that costs, why wouldn't you do that?

One of the key things I think we've signed up and this is one of the first things that Greg and I have done together was that single consistent process with respect to product around the globe. So one systematic solution, and that allows us to control.

I think that was one of the questions raise in your section, Greg, which allows us to be very specific about the quality requirements of our products and make sure that they're aligned across the countries. But we see this as a big opportunity to add value to our customers around the globe.

Okay, let's move on and talk about some e-commerce, and it's a critical objective of us to accelerate our e-commerce.

First thing, we've had a good year so far. We're seeing very strong growth across our businesses. We've got businesses of some sort and pretty much every market in which we operate, all be of a low base.

We're very focused on grocery and again, once again, very lucky to have in our portfolio the world's second largest grocery and shopping business in Asbury, so lots of learning over the last 15 years of that journey that we can deploy around the globe.

And what we'll do is create centers of excellence so that we can start to take that best practice and translate into other countries. We're very aligned with Neil and the team and we'll be very aligned with the work that Judy is doing in this area.

We'll focus on our five big markets and you'll see innovation rolling as quick as we can do it, so I think a couple of weeks ago, we just launched in Mexico, we rolled out food and shopping business to another 75 stores in some of the biggest cities and that gives customers access to over 3,000 SKUs in those markets.

We'll use a mixture of store pick and dark stores such the technology that us has used to grow that business and we'll have a mixture of delivery and collector across that market. And our approach will be to go as fast as we can whilst we leverage the global capability that Neil is building.

So let's move on to the enablers and first of all, lowest cost to operate, lots of stuff going on around the globe. If you're a business whose job is to save customer's money, you have to have the lowest cost base.

What I think you'll start to see us do now is a lot more benchmarking externally. We intended in the past to look at incremental improvements from where we -- where we've been. Going forward, we'll look at what's best-in-class in a market both in our industry and outside. It's a very clear benchmark in terms of what we need to achieve on cost to allow us to sell for less and then work how we get there.

And there are a few examples here that I picked out going on around the globe at the moment. Workforce management, we've got a great system called RedPrairie prioritized in -- or pilots in a couple of our markets and I'll call out China and Mexico on this one.

They've implemented this system and in the course of this year over, they've been able to take out in total around 20 million labor hours in just one year. That's about a 10% improvement in municipal labor hour. Now, some of that gets reinvested into growing the business, some of that drops down to the bottom line. And there are examples of these as you go all the way across the business.

I just picked out maybe one more which is operating structure and the U.K. is probably our landmark market for a very tough economic environment for a long period of time and that's where I think we've done a very nice job at navigating that, by putting in a series of long-term structural redesigns of their cost base, not short term just hacking cost out but structural redesign.

You saw that announcement over the last month or so about redesigning their stores. And I think you can expect to see that from us in an ongoing basis that there will be regular announcements as we structure to go in, look at processes right across our business and look for smarter ways to do work and prioritize harder rather than simply cutting cost down.

So to finish on the enablers then in terms of talent and trust, we've done a lot to build talent, we've got a long way to go there and some of that new appointments not here with us today but Dirk Van den Berghe who replaced Shelley in Canada is a great hire.

And maybe just give you a quick profile of Dirk. So Dirk has interestingly a long career in retail, was a diplomat before that, has a PhD in Economics, and he -- as he tells me, he speaks five languages and he's dangerous in another five. He's ran retailers in Asia, he's ran retailers in Europe, he's ran hard discount, he's ran soft discount.

That's the sort of caliber of individual you're going to need to manage some of the transformations that we're planning to do over the next few years. And you'll see us continually look to operate that talent across the markets and I'm very pleased with some of the appointments that we've made so far this year.

On compliance, we spent a lot of time talking about compliance last year and I just want to give you a quick update. I'm really pleased with the progress that we've made in the last year but there's still a lot to do.

We've made -- we pretty much built out good organizational solutions for our 14 focus areas and, Jeff, we've hired some really, really string people into that business. We're now auditing our processes and as we're working through that, we're seeing everywhere we look into opportunities to improve our processes in particularly to improve the effectiveness of our program.

And the final stage we're starting now is in -- putting in global systems to make sure that we can take those great teams, give them the information to make sure that this is an organization that gets things right first time every time.

On compliance, it's been -- it's been a very rapid journey over the last year. So I'm absolutely convinced that in the transparent world in which we live in now, being world class of compliance is an absolute prerequisite for world class business and we're already seeing some of the benefits, Jeff, and you've been a great partner on this one.

Okay, let's very quickly now run through some of that markets and I'll hand on to Brett. So China, tough market, we're still very much focused on building our foundations. We're very clear about how we grow. We spend a lot of time working about which regions are right for us and particularly how our formats work.

So very focused on the South, we know which sort of golden principles allow us to have a successful store launch and we're seeing the performance of our new stores increase sequentially.

We've done a lot of work at building trust. We put a lot of programs in place to our compliance organization around DNA testing on meat, food safety audits, third-party audits of our stores. It's not perfect yet but we're making really good progress particularly on health and safety. And we're working hard with Neil's team to integrate our physical and digital businesses.

In terms of Mexico, Mexico is a really good business for us. But we want to rejuvenate it. It's had a phenomenal track record over 2,000 stores. In the last 10 years growing sales by 10%, profited over 12% on a compound annual growth rate.

Now, there are businesses that productivity loop has been completely dominated by growth. And that growth slowed down. So what we're now having to do is build muscles in other areas around the wage planning to make sure that they are just as adept and surviving in a lower growth market as they have in the past one.

We've been much more disciplined about our CapEx in that market. We intended to be very backend loaded and we've opened a lot of stores in December over the last years which is not right for associates and it's not right for customers. And again, you'll see us be prepared to slow down where we need to, to create a much more balanced growth program.

Sam's has been an issue there. Todd Harbaugh is now being in place. Todd was COO of our US Sam's Club business. He's been in place now for about six months. We were down there a couple of weeks ago, had a very good review with Todd and he's got his arms around the situation. It's going to take him a while to get that business back on track but we're starting to see some good progress and we're accelerating e-commerce.

In terms of Brazil, we want to turn around Brazil. It's a really tough market but I'm very pleased with the progress that we're making there. We've got a good team in place. Gui Loureiro has built a strong team around, and they all know Brazil very well, they've got lots of experience.

They've got good experience of change management and turnaround. They've built some really solid foundations in that business and compliance in particular as they move forward significantly away.

I think a highlight I pulled out is the work on integration. It's a tough market and complex particularly with labor and taxation in that market, very hard to do that when you're running with three different businesses in three head offices on different systems. We've converted 106 stores this year. We'll have the South finished this year and we'll have the Northern stores finished by the end of next year.

And finally again, we've done a lot of time working out where we grow when we're ready to grow. We're not just yet but it will be at a discount format and that will be in the areas in which we're strong, so [turn them blue Kumbayah].

In U.K., our role is to redefine value retailing. As I say, I think Andy and the team have done a really nice job at navigating through what is a very tough environment in the U.K. They've taken a long-term view about how they balance the various aspects of the consumer offer, built some good differentiation on products, private label and fresh, and really put a rigorous approach in just taking cost out of their business. There are leaders in e-commerce and they continue to develop their business in terms of access and reach.

And then finally onto Canada, we want to strengthen our position in Canada. Over the last two years, it's been dominated by the rollout of supercenters. We've got just under 300 at the moment. So we've laid down a huge amount of food space in the last five to six years. Our job now is to go back and optimize that. So what you'll see is focus much harder on now as innovating the food offer within those existing spaces.

Good work going on there in terms of cost reduction and they're one of our partner markets in terms of growing e-commerce. They're strengthening their position to grow there.

So I'm going to hand over to Brett now and Brett is going to walk you through a bit more detail of some of our financials and then I'll just come on at the end to close.

BRETT BIGGS, CFO - WAL-MART INTERNATIONAL, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Thanks, David. So I guess if you're introducing English, I guess I'll be the first one this morning introduced Texan to the audience. You'll have to put up with my Southern draw for a few minutes versus that great British accent which is really difficult to follow.

I want to take just a quick look this morning at our first half performance to start with that but then transition to talk a bit about our portfolio and how we think about that and how we manage that portfolio particularly as it relates to capital into the P&L.

You can see from here that we had a pretty good start of the year. There are always things as Dave mentioned that we could have done better. But overall, a pretty solid start.

We certainly like seeing [NAP] income growing fast than the sales, what you see here. We've had a pretty good balance as far as how the performance has been across our portfolio.

And a good first half in some of our markets that we don't talk about sometimes but are very important to us, markets like Chile, Central Americas, Argentina, Japan, that had really good starts at the year.

Japan performed really well in the first half of the year with good comps, comps that are exceeding the market. And as we mentioned last year, we continue to take a look at the composition of our assets in Japan just to ensure we're in the best place competitively there long term.

We've seen our comp sales improve overall. We've had strong comps in places like Latin America and particularly Brazil as well as Africa and Japan and strong e-commerce growth in several of our markets.

The U.K. had positive comps in the first half and even in the very competitive market there. The team continues to do a great job in managing and in more than holding their own in that market.

It's been a bit more of a challenging market as you look at Canada and Mexico and China, a bit more of a challenging start to the year. Q2 was better than Q1 in those markets and again, those teams do a very good job of managing the overall business even when comps aren't quite where we'd like to have in.

We leveraged the expenses in the first half of the year in most of our countries and we'll continue. This will be a continual focus for us. But as Doug talked about earlier, we'll continue to focus on investing in the business and ensuring we keep the good balance.

We do know longer term there are costs that wouldn't be aggressive with our cost structure, that our competitors will continue to be more aggressive now and in the future. We'll have to continue to do that but we'll balance that with our sales growth in ensuring that we grow the business long term.

We still have a lot of work to do around working capital. Dave mentioned it earlier. We've talked about in the first couple of quarters that we're not happy with where we've been from an inventory perspective.

You'll see progress to think of that in the back half of the year. The countries are all taking initiatives. They're all doing the things you would expect them to do. But we need to continue to focus on inventory and working capital going forward, so overall, a pretty good start to the year.

Turn for a minute and talk about new square footage. So I'm going to -- I'm going to orient you to the slide just for a minute. You see net and gross square footage and we show it this way because of the closures we had in the last year or so in China and in Brazil. It makes it easier to compare year-over-year.

And so what you see, you'll see cap or -- our square footage has been declining over the last several years. And there are a couple of main reasons for that. One is Mexico where we have slowdown growth a little bit in Mexico particularly in some of our larger stores. But Mexico continues to be a very good growth market for us in the future. And also in Brazil as Dave talked about, we're ensuring we get our business right in Brazil before we look at growing in a meaningful way in Brazil in the near term.

FY '15 is going to come in a little bit -- a little bit light of where we had expected from a square footage perspective and for the reasons I just mentioned but also some timing if you see opening to move from one year to the next. We would expect next year as far as gross square footage to be similar to what we have this year, maybe slightly up.

So one of our focus areas is how we allocate capital around the world. And if you look at today versus even a few years ago, you're starting to see this transition in capital. And you're seeing --for the reasons I talked about just a minute ago, you're seeing as a percent of CapEx or -- CapEx, a little bit less being spent on new stores and I'll come back to that in a minute.

You've seen us spend more money on remodels because we want to make sure that our existing fleet that we're taking care of were serving the customers and that we're innovating in our existing fleet.

We spent more in e-commerce and that's been the theme all morning long as you've heard. We'll continue to spend more in e-commerce. They'll be a growing part of our CapEx.

As we continue to accelerate this integration of physical and digital that you've heard so much about this morning, you continue to hear about. Dave talked about the U.K. and the things that we're doing there from click-and-collect and all the different ways that we're able to serve the customers. We'll continue to do that in other markets.

Store spending is going to continue to be fairly similar to what you've seen from us this year, but within that, there's a little bit of a mixed shift as well. We'll spend more on smaller formats. We want to give our customer better access to our brand around the world.

Supercenters and large formats that will continue to be a very important part -- important part of our portfolio is that it's a great way for us to get that one-stop shopping experience to the customer and will continue to be very important.

And we'll continue this transition in CapEx over the coming years to ensure that we're taking care of our customers and all the ways that they want to shop in the future.

We're also going to continue to transition a bit in a composition of our P&L. Historically, a large percent of our sales and profit you will notice have come from our three main markets in Canada, the U.K. and Mexico.

We've been incredibly fortunate to have teams there in those markets that are great at managing the business and delivering sales and profit and also great market positions in those markets. But we need better balance across the portfolio. We need to continue to improve the performance of our other markets and we've talked a little bit about that earlier that we are seeing some of that improvement in some of those markets.

And there's better balance to do a couple of things for us. First, it gives us a more -- more diverse opportunities for growth and profitability really across the portfolio longer term. It gives us more businesses to build upon in the future. It de-risk the portfolio at the same time it really leverages everything we do across the portfolio.

It also allows our large markets every opportunity to continue to win in their markets and also to accelerate this integration of physical and digital in these markets to serve the customers in all the ways they want to be served. The customers move very quickly and we have to stay with that customer, I think in some cases even lead that customer into the future.

So over the past year or so you've seen we've started moving in this direction but we want to continue to accelerate this in the future and ensure we get the most out of -- out of the entire portfolio.

When you have a business that's as diverse as ours and as large as ours, you have to constantly be assessing what's right for the business both long term and short term what's good for the customer, what's good for the shareholders.

And on the right, you see some things and some decisions that we've made in the past and many times, there's a challenging decision if they're the right thing to do for the business longer term and for the shareholders.

And when we assess our portfolio, there are a number of things that we consider and certainly, this list isn't exhausted in any way but there are some things that we consider as we go through these decisions.

As Dave said, we want to be in good businesses and that relates to the formats, channels, geographies, categories. But we want to make sure that we are in the right businesses. We want to be able to accelerate our strategy. As I said, the customer is moving very, very quickly. We've got to move at least with the speed, if not quicker than they're moving.

We want to always find ways to simplify our business. You can't always take a decision based on this solely but if there are opportunities for us to simplify our business, we want to continue to do that.

And then just continuing to focus on key initiatives, we have a very diverse business and we need to make sure that we're focusing on the most important things everyday in many of those Dave talked about earlier.

So as Dave comes back up, I'll end by saying, we're going to continue to manage and assess all the areas of our portfolio and always with the customer mind, with the shareholder mind, short term and long term and taking that all into consideration. But we're very excited about where we can go in the future.

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: Okay. Well, I'll just read them as we stay up we're just about to wrap up.

So -- Okay, so in summary, back to where we started, I think we've got a very clear plan. We want to be in good businesses and we want to run them well and you'll hear the operational priorities remain remarkably consistent over the next couple of years. They're the ones listed on the right.

I think the message for us, we've got a solid start to the year, we're particularly pleased with the improvements in our comp sales but we're under no mis-illusion, we've got a lot more work to do to get this business in the shape we want it to be in.

We've got a very clear strategy. We completed a thorough and comprehensive review of our portfolio. We know where the customer is moving, we know where we need to move and you'll see us continue to actively manage our existing portfolio.

And finally, we'll be very focused on execution. We'll be focused on execution of our strategy and we'll be focused on delivering retail basics wherever we operate.

So with that Carol, we'll take any questions that they want to ask. I'm going to ask the rest of the team to come up.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: So we have about 20 minutes for the international Q&A. And is Miguel in the back or Michael, are you doing this session? Here, Miguel, you have the mic. We'll start -- we'll start up front, so we'll start, Richard, with you for the first question?

Richard Cathcart. Thanks, Carol. Richard Cathcart from HSBC. Just a question on Brazil, I think you've made pretty good progress there on integrating the business and you just mentioned that. But your sales density is still quite far behind the competition. Do you think you can solve that problem?

And then just linked to that point on positioning the formats in Brazil, do you think you're missing a format like [Bodega Data] in Brazil or do you think you kind of hit the right format with Todo Dia, can you just give an update to that?

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: Okay. So we're doing the reverse order. I think the answer to the last question is yes. You know, Todo Dia is very much modeled on today giving one of the advantages of having Enrique working across the region is we are sharing best practice from a format we know very well in Mexico with the Bodega go into Brazil.

And lots of -- if you walk to Todo Dia, you know, you would see an enormous amount of commonality right through from the way they structure brands, the way they lay out their stores. So yes, I think that is our growth vehicle.

In terms of the densities, you know, clearly, we've got a challenge over the last couple of years in driving sales but when you take -- so far this year, we've seen a significant improvement in our sales growth in that market. And obviously, we're carrying the closure of a number of stores from the last year but we'll need to keep driving sales hard to get our sales densities up.

Enrique, do you have anything you want to add?

ENRIQUE OSTALE, PRESIDENT, CEO - WAL-MART LATIN AMERICA, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Yes. In terms of sales, there are some public figures there for our competitors and we understand, of course, the -- with the goal -- the wholesale -- [the Takaral] business is doing good and you can see from [cart pool].

From CTA, [Pal Azucar]. We just released the numbers and our performance were received there that we are pleased with the performance when we compare it to them, of course, considering the store that we closed.

Although we have seen some slowdown in Brazil after the World Cup but the whole market is -- has slowed down after the second World Cup.

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: Okay.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay. We'll go to Chris, Miguel.

Chris Horvers. Thanks. Chris Horvers, JPMorgan. So I wanted to follow onto that question. You know, stepping back across the portfolio, you talked about being very diligent in terms of making sure you have the right assets in place.

What markets -- and you closed stores in China and Brazil this past year. Where do you think the assets aren't right, whether it's supply chain, real estate locations and formats, you know, outside of Brazil across the portfolio?

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: Okay, thanks, Chris. I mean clearly, we can't talk about and this is -- we might take in the future. You know, what I can tell you is we'll keep reviewing the portfolio and where we find areas that we don't think are financially viable or non-core to our business then we'll take appropriate action on those but we can't talk about what we might do in the future.

I think the one thing I would say in terms of individual stores is just to reiterate the work that Scott's been leading with Brett's support on how we plan our pipeline going forward. And the concept of global or our golden principles which is a much more rigorous view about what does it take to be successful market by market in the new store and constantly forward flexing for what we see in terms of online penetration, you know, multi-store floor - multi-floor formats that we see in China and understanding what works and doesn't work is giving us a much better track record of being successful in the real estate we do lay out. So that's where we'll spend a lot of our time.

CHRISTOPHER HORVERS: And so maybe another way, can you give a little retrospective on where the process I guess went wrong in the past, how this -- why these assets were acquired and, you know, how is that disciplined different going forward?

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: I mean it's difficult to comment on what went on in the past. I think the big change that we're seeing at the moment is the speed in which the customer is changing. And by nature when you -- when you decide to invest in a particular store in the location, you're taking a forward view for 25 years around what you think growth rates would be.

So we've got a lot of stores that we build in the early 2000s where we had, boy, an economist, and the view is that they would remain buoyant for long period of time, we live in a very different world now.

So I think what we're developing is a methodology that allows us to be much more forward-thinking and much more proactive and looking at our growth curves and assumptions and to make sure -- you know, we've got no crystal ball but at least we're consciously thinking through how quickly the customer is moving and make sure we're adjusting our investments accordingly. So, you know, I think a lot of it is the world is just very different now than it was five years ago.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay, we'll go up front to Budd and then Marion, Simeon will be next.

Budd Bugatch; Hi. Budd Bugatch with Raymond James. If I understood Brett's slide properly, for fiscal '16 to '18, you're thinking that the big three operating income will grow slower than the sales, is that the way -- right way to interpret of that, and if so, could you maybe give us some color on that again? I just don't quite understand it.

BRETT BIGGS: It's the percentage of -- in each case, it's the percentage of sales growth on each side. And just as we look at the next three years overall, it is trying to, Budd, continue to balance out the portfolio.

In some markets, we want to ensure that we maintain our competitive position particularly in places where we have market leadership and just ensuring that we give those teams the opportunity -- every opportunity to do that.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: And then Simeon next.

SIMEON GUTMAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Simeon Gutman, Morgan Stanley. You showed that slide about $5.5 trillion of growth opportunity trying to stood out as being the most opportunistic. Can you talk about where your position in terms of formats and categories, is Wal-Mart in the right place in those pieces? And I have one follow-up.

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: Okay. So I think before you get to formats, you know, one of the things that we'll be -- we'll be pretty dogmatic about is you have to build solid foundations to your retail operations if you want to grow fast.

And we've said in the past that if you grow too fast, you can pay the consequences later on. So the work that Scott and Greg started off Sean Clarke now are leading Canada to consolidate buying offices to make sure that our process is as strong and, of course, systems are in place. So everybody -- Tom is there to support the growth that's going to be key.

In terms of the formats, you know, we're optimistic about the formats we're in. We think there's the role of the hypermarkets in a developing market. Sam's Club is very strong and we've got a very successful fast-growing business in [Yuhauty] in there.

We'll look and see whether other formats are going to be appropriate in the future and certainly, if you look at our strategies, supermarket is one that we see growing well around the globe and that's one that we could consider but we haven't made any formal decisions on that yet.

SIMEON GUTMAN: Okay. And then the second, capital allocation, I expect maybe in the afternoon, we're going to hear that there is less capital going for new stores, more going to e-commerce. The message here in the financial is slightly more in stores but also more in e-commerce.

Is the philosophy the same, it's just you have a mix of some markets that still requires some footage growth or is the philosophy all that different?

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: Yes, I'll take it and maybe Brett can add a bit of color. So I think the philosophy is exactly the same. We've got two differences in international. One is we have a -- we have a suite of developing markets whereas obviously in core US, you're in the developed markets that gives a slightly different perspective.

The second is that, you know, we've been quite thoughtful at slowing down some of that new real estate growth in markets where we didn't feel we had solid foundation. So we slowed down in Mexico, we slowed down in Brazil, and we slowed down in China where we build some foundations.

So once we're happy with the foundations and if the opportunities arise and our analysis of future growth curve says that we can make good returns in those formats, you could see that start to tweak up.

I think I'm right on this but over the last four years, our CAGR on new store investment is about negative 10 over that period of time. But the shape is exactly the same, so new stores going down, shifting from big to small, investing in e-commerce, investing in remodels to make sure that our state remains current and relevant to customers, it would be the same shape.

BRETT BIGGS: Now, really, it's just the market by market. Look, some markets are in different stages of development than others.

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: Yes.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay. We'll go to Meredith, Miguel, in the back there.

MEREDITH ADLER: I have a question about compliances. Obviously, you've done a tremendous amount of work, you sound right, they're still learning to be done. Why do think the risk is that there will be some kind of media event disclosure that says that there were still a problem or do you think that the fine tuning you're doing is, you know, you're not going to run into a problem about something major at this point?

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: I think the thing about compliance is this is a never-ending journey. As I say, we've made extraordinary progress in the last two years under Jeff's leadership and we've got Jay to the side and maybe Jay, do you want to say anything in addition to what I say?

We've made extraordinary progress but we're only -- we're only a bit of the way through the journey. We built an organization that I believe is world class and we had some fantastic people.

We've mapped most of our major processes and we're now going through the process of looking out where those duplicative processes and how do we combine them and make them simpler, how do we improve them to make sure that the program is more effective.

And we're in the early stages now of converting some global function and technical capabilities that will allow us to systematize that and make sure that we do the right thing all the time. But I think this is a journey that's going to take a long time. It's going to be I think for anybody who aspires to do world-class retail particularly of that size, it will be a prerequisite of being an effective operator in the future.

Jay, and was there anything you would add to that?

JAY JORGENSEN, GLOBAL CCO, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: I agree with what you said, Dave. I don't have anything to add to that other than to just in the past, we've benchmarked what we've been doing over the last two years with other major companies, companies like General Electric, Schlumberger, other major international operators.

And, you know, we have some opportunities to things that they were doing that we weren't doing. Over the last couple of years, we've fixed that. Now, we're doing the things that they're doing.

But that doesn't mean that we'll never have a problem. We're a business of 2 million people making mistakes and we want to innovate, we want to -- we want to try new things. That's going to result in more mistakes. But we now have the processes and the procedures that you just mentioned to teach and train and to keep those small.

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: Yes.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: And some of you may remember that last year, Jay Jorgensen, who heads up our Global Compliance area did present as part of the international group.

Scott?

SCOTT MUSHKIN: Yes, Scott Mushkin from Wolfe Research. So you emphasized that the first half was pretty good and things are kind of on plan and maybe a little bit better. As we look at the second half, a lot of these economies that you've participated in are having a lot of problems. The dollars appreciated fairly nicely again from a lot other currencies.

It's hard to sit here now and think that there's got to be some concern. Do you want to talk about the global consumer environment, what you're seeing and how are you going to navigate through it?

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: So I said -- I think I said we were solid rather than pretty good. But there's a solid start. And in terms of it, obviously, I can't talk about our numbers in the quarter. We haven't released those yet.

But you can see a few data points particularly in the last week BRC in the U.K. releasing numbers, [Antad] in Mexico showed numbers. But both would point to September being a pretty tough month around the globe across every retailer.

As we've looked at that, there's quite a lot of phasing in there, so we look to the way the weekends fell, holidays fell that tended to suck business out into August and later. But I think that's the trend for everybody. So...

SCOTT MUSHKIN: You know, are you seeing any, you know, general slowdown or further slowdown in the consumer globally?

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: I think we see a similar position but everywhere, certainly, I travel, I see markets that are tough, you know, and tough economies and stress consumers and that's not changed here in the course of this year. I think that's the environment we're going to keep operating.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: And Dave, we'll go to Michael on this side.

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Very quickly, Canada, Mexico and U.K. all look like markets where there may be consolidation or assets dispositions going on. How do you look at those markets and what you may or may not do as those things begin to take place?

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: Okay, and Shelley, I maybe ask you to come in a bit. But, you know, there's always changing dynamics in the market and one of the things we try to focus very hard on is what we can do for our business.

So, you know, first and foremost, we're focusing on running good businesses in those markets. And I think -- maybe I'll talk to Asda very quickly and then Shelley if you can add any color.

I think the way Andy -- Andy and his team have led the Asda business through an extended period of turbulence in the U.K. is the way we want to do things. They've had a clear strategy for a couple of years. It's involved making sure they understand what their customers want and taking a long-term rigorous strategic approach to their business to make sure they deliver on -- deliver on it irrespective of what happens around them.

It may present headwinds, it may present opportunities, but they're focused on their business and I think you've seen them very successfully navigate at tough times. Their companies house results were out this week so you got some insight to how well we've fared versus competition.

Shelley, I don't know if you want to add something on Canada?

SHELLEY BROADER, PRESIDENT, CEO - WAL-MART EMEA, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: One of the nice parts about being part of the global company like Wal-Mart is your ability to learn from each other. And so Canada has now entered sort of the hyper competitive phase that the U.K. has been operating in for many years.

So this last year, we've seen rapid consolidation with four big retailers joining forces to become two. And so the idea of how to go ahead and reinvent your business to invest in your associate and invest in pricing that had happened in the U.K. is now being applied to the Canadian marketplace very successfully.

So it certainly is a market under consolidation. We've had new market entrance and we have allowed this change to make us a better Wal-Mart. And those of us that we're together in Canada prior to the addition of a new market entrant talked about how change in the marketplace lets the strong survive and allows you to sharpen your own toolkit.

So the price gap in Canada is stronger than ever than merchandise assortment. The private brand has allowed us to be more competitive in that market due to the dynamic changes there.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Paul?

PAUL TRUSSELL: Paul Trussell, Deutsche Bank. Just on the margin front, you know, in the first half, the operating income nicely outpaced the top-line. What's your confidence level on the sustainability of that going forward, you know, following a few bumpy years?

How do we think about the opportunity going forward on your ability to leverage and continue to find the efficiencies across the different markets?

And just on average, how should we think about price investment and merchandise mix and the impact to gross margin over the next few periods?

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: Okay. So maybe to take a few bits in there, in terms of where to -- you know, how optimistic are we about opportunities in our markets, very optimistic. But I don't think it's a business I go into where I can't see opportunities either by benchmarking against someone else either in our out industry or looking within our business to make the business better.

I think you'll see us move more from a series of tactical initiatives and cost cutting strategic redesigns of business processes to make sure that the changes we're making not just take costs out but make us better positioned to process. And across all our markets, I'd expect you to hear our kind of common cadence of those sorts of initiatives.

So I'm optimistic about what we can deliver. Where that goes to, I think, you know, our broad -- our broad sphere would be that you can expect our operating margins to remain relatively stable. We've got a couple of things to focus on.

Our price positions are not where we want them to be in some markets, so as we generate funds, we'd want to make sure that we remain competitive on price. That's what our customers come to see us for.

And the second thing is we've got to do work on the portfolio to make sure we're positioned for growth. We need to go as fast as we can on e-commerce. We need to invest in some places, some of our smaller stores. And part of that improvement and efficiency is about allowing us to invest in our portfolio to make sure that we're positioned in the future.

Brett?

BRETT BIGGS: I agree with you. If you travel around the world, the good thing you see is there are so many opportunities, as Greg mentioned and as Doug mentioned, it's really store by store. When you get in the store, there's already -- there's always so many things that we can do differently and then you look at that at the market level and there's other things we can do.

I get asked all the time what inning are you in as far as leverage, and it's not an inning. There is the reason the productivity loop is a cycle and it's a circle. And so you always have opportunity to do that.

I think as we go forward, Dave, that the challenge will be and the opportunity will be continue to balance that with growing the business and investing in some of these markets to ensure that we're doing what we want to go forward with the customer.

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: And maybe the Mexico is a good example. I mean on paper, Mexico, has our lowest cost base. But it's a business we go into and we see plenty of opportunities to make it more efficient.

And as these growths slow down, you're going to need to work that base much harder and put some of the productivity efficiencies that we've seen in the mature markets into that business to allow it to compete effectively in a glower growth market. So there are opportunities everywhere.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: And Marion, I will go to Greg Melich.

GREG MELICH: Hi, thanks. I think it might be a continuation of your latest answer but could you step back a little bit and help us understand how you actually make the decision to enter a market?

And also under what conditions you might take a market that's very good for you but you would consider X at the end, you know, perhaps you're operating very well, you're best-in-class but for whatever reason, that doesn't have to grow because it doesn't have the other metrics that hit the two things you talked about? Just take us to the process and how that's changing?

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: Okay. And I guess you walked through a sequential set of events on either way. In terms of -- as we look at new markets, you know, we'll look -- as we do these analyses on positioning and portfolio, we'll look for areas that are growing.

So the position we've looked which big markets aren't where do we think there's growth, is there a partner in there that we believe would be a good way of entering or is it greenfield.

And then the field that's very important for us is, you know, even if it's a big opportunity, do we have the capability to do it, do we think we can add value for customers in that market and differentiate ourselves and do we have the capability across our enterprise for -- to take that on in addition to all the other things we're doing.

But I think you had a pretty clear steer at the start as we look to that portfolio. We have access to a lot of global growth over the next five years. And there's no market I go in where we can't get substantial growth quite improving the markets we're in both in terms of repositioning or waiting towards the fast growing markets but also improving in the stores we're in.

In terms of exit, I mean a pretty similar approach. We'll constantly review the portfolio. You know, all of these reviews, our first point is to start with the customer and look at what customers are doing in individual markets and then look at our capabilities.

And if we believe we've got a business there where we don't think there's a way of certain customers in the way we want to or it's too small and it's destructive for our core business and it's interfering with our ability to deliver on our strategic plan then we'd make decisions accordingly.

presentation

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Dave, thank you very much to you and the team. We're out of time for questions on international.

Before we break for lunch, we'd like to comment about one other thing and that is that we know in the investment community, there is a growing trend to look at the brand of a company with eye toward responsibility.

There are more investors today looking at factors beyond the numbers and they are looking at things that taken to consideration, the ESG factors, the environment, social and governance factors. So our efforts behind corporate responsibility become even more important.

For those of you who follow us regularly, you know that we also have our annual report our not only in print version but in a digital world like electronic version.

We also have a very robust global responsibility report available as well both in a print form but more importantly, to be sustainable in a digital form. We partner constantly with our corporate affairs people in our effort in these particular areas.

And we like to share with you a short video that gets to some of those important messages. I think some of you are very familiar with our efforts in sustainability in the environment because that's where we have the longest history.

But we also have great commitments behind our -- with our foundation to the communities in which we operate. In fact, last year, we donated more than $1 billion in cash and in kind goods in the communities where we do business as well as others who may have been hurt by natural disasters like hurricanes.

We do a great deal of work as well with our associates helping them see more opportunities, helping them to grow in their careers, and that's part of our brand as well and we do feel that that is a contributing factor to our [soft] value.

Before we start the video, I'd like to recognize in the back, Dan Bartlett who is our EVP of Corporate Affairs and really heads up a lot of the areas that you're going to see in the video. So please roll the video.

(Video Presentation)

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Thank you. And now, we will break for lunch. And during one of the earlier sessions, there was a question about our private brands. First of all, I'd like to recognize Sam's Club for having provided breakfast.

And Greg and Duncan, I think your teams have done a great job of bringing together a great launch from Wal-Mart US for you. It will be in the rooms next door. And I will let you know that a good portion of what you're going to be eating for lunch is part of our private brand offering from Wal-Mart US So we will take about 45 minutes for lunch, so if you can look at your watches and come back in 45 minutes and we'll get underway with our program this afternoon.

Remember that at the beginning of the program, Claire did mention that you will hear more about and get the rest of the pieces particularly the dollars on CapEx this afternoon in Charles' presentation. So thank you and we'll be back for the webcast in about 45 minutes.

(BREAK)

presentation

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Welcome back to Wal-Mart's meeting for the investment community. I'm Carol Schumacher, the IRO at Wal-Mart Stores, Inc, and hopefully you did all have a great lunch. We appreciate the feedback we've been receiving from you so far and we'll get the afternoon program under the way.

As you know, we will be making forward-looking statements during this part of the meeting as well, so don't forget to refer to our website with the information on our forward-looking statements and other details related to our company.

I'm very pleased to introduce to this stage the head of Global eCommerce, President and CEO, Neil Ashe. Neil?

NEIL ASHE, PRESIDENT, CEO - GLOBAL ECOMMERCE, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Thank you. Thank you Carol. Thank you all. I hope you had a great lunch and welcome back.

We've had a great year. And it's always great to be back together with you and to share some of the progress that we've made. But before I jump into that, I wanted to talk a little bit about customers. So Doug opened the morning talking about how we're transforming our relationship with our customers.

And when I've been up here for the last several years, we've talked to you about our changing customer and about the changing retail landscape. We showed you how our customers are using more smartphones and social networks. We talked about how Wal-Mart has evolved to better serve these customers from discount retails, to supercenters, warehouse clubs, ecommerce and international. And I've discussed how we've been building best in class ecommerce capabilities that we could then marry with the world's largest retailer to serve customers in new ways.

I'm excited about where we are. But today, instead of talking about how the customer is changing, I want to focus more on how we're bringing it all together, how we are now anticipating our customers' needs to serve them in ways they themselves had not even thought of.

We're to a point where we can predict where customers are going, and find exciting new ways to serve them.

One of my favorite examples of this is Savings Catcher that Duncan talked about earlier. Our customers didn't ask for Savings Catcher but they are loving it. Since launch, there are over 33 million receipts had been scanned. It's funny that number keeps changing because it's growing so fast everyday, over 2 million new accounts to Wal-Mart.com. But the real value of the Savings Catcher isn't that we're giving money back, what's really important is that we're reinforcing that we're already giving you the lowest price, almost every single time. And in the rare instance that someone else has the lower price, we're using digital technology to go out and do the work for you to save you time.

Savings Catcher is brand affirming, it reinforces trust, it's all about who we are. And customers now have a real incentive to become digitally engaged. Even casual customers are participating. And that's the beauty of Savings Catcher. It's a simple yet powerful example of how we can serve customers when we integrate new digital capabilities with our physical presence.

And that's really at the core of what we're doing. We're tying everything together to create a more connected and highly engaged relationship with our customers. We're delivering Wal-Mart your way.

Our customers' lives are busy and they're complicated. And no matter where they start shopping, we're making it easy and convenient. And we're giving you reasons to come back more often, whether you start on your phone, on a tablet or in one of our stores.

I love being on it. Tonight after dinner, I went down to the Pleasant Grove Supercenter. And it really hit me kind of walking around this hub of activity at 9 o'clock on a Tuesday afternoon, or Tuesday evening rather. What a special place a supercenter is. It serves so many different roles and different people's lives. It's buzzing with activity. It is amazing business tool all at the same time.

Right now in a supercenter somewhere, there's a family stocking up on groceries for the week. In that same supercenter, there's a dad and his daughter grabbing some shin guards before soccer practice. And he's probably talking to one of his neighbors because he can never seem to find them at home.

At the Sam's Club down the way, there's a restaurant owner and she's going over tonight's menu and finding the freshest products so that she can serve her customers that evening. And all of these people came to shop with us because they know they can find whatever they need and they could find them at low prices.

Greg, Dave and Ross all talked about the many ways we'll be serving customers even better in our stores and club, by improving our fresh selection and by focusing on in-stock on service in assortment. And now we have even more ways to serve them. We're giving them access in new and convenient ways. We're delivering great new experiences. We're providing a vastly greater assortment at the low prices they expect.

I want to welcome two of colleagues, Fernando Madeira and Michael Bender to the stage, to talk through how we're pulling all these things together. Fernando leads Wal-Mart.com and came to us from leading Latin America and he moved to San Bruno now to run Wal-Mart.com around the world. Michael is the Chief Operating Officer of Global eCommerce. And he comes to us from the retail organization where he was president of the West.

Fernando -- we're doing a lot on the digital experience; tell us about how some of those are changing.

FERNANDO MADEIRA, PRESIDENT, CEO - WALMART.COM, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Alright. So good afternoon guys. As Neil mentioned, we are working hard [increased decision] with our customers. What does it mean? It means a lot more choices for our customers; more choices, more options that they can find in our physical stores.

If a customer comes to our Wal-Mart.com US site, they'll probably see much more options. Actually, three times more options than it had a couple of years ago. We're going to double this number again next year.

While we are thinking about that -- Okay, that's important for our customers, I can see. But it's important for our business -- for sure it is.

Right now in Wal-Mart.com, 75% of our online sales comes from non-store items. And before you ask me, yeah, we are doing great in terms of pricing.

Four out of five times we have our prices similar or lower than our major online competitors. That's all at Wal-Mart, everyday low price.

We're doing this globally. So my fellow Brazilians will see this holiday that to increase the assortment 10 times than the last year. It's a lot [of new choices] for them.

Also, if you look at China, we've doubled the general merchandising offering for them. We are doing this because we want to give to all our customers new ways to shop. But at the same time, we want to reinvent the online experience. It's not easy to browse all over these products, and we wanted to revamp this online experience.

So let me tell you how we're doing this. Let me start with smartphones. Internet brought store to the web, right? So now smartphones are bringing all the web to the store. If you look at smartphones, all our customers, they have smartphones more and more in our store. We've picked up this example of store search and improve it. A month ago, we launched a new store search. It helped with our customers to find any product inside of our assortment, online or offline so they can check price, availability and also imagine that they are all going down to aisle in a supercenter and they want to make a choice between two products, we can check with this application customer reviews. So it's great. Customers love it.

My second example, it is about receipts. We have an e-receipt application, [where receipt] is featured inside of our Wal-Mart.com application and is very much simple. If you go to a supercenter and get a printed receipt, there is a code so you can scan that code and our application will load and automatically store that kind of -- that receipt inside of our application. It's a cool thing. But actually, it's much more nice when it started to connect the e-receipt with other services and features.

So Neil and Duncan talked to you about the Savings Catcher. This is a good example of how we can connect e-receipts to the services. 33 million e-receipts has been entered inside of Savings Catcher. That's a cool thing because it gathers the receipts there, the application starts to look for savings for you every single minute.

There's another thing. We just announced them today, our new service that we are pretty excited because it combined a lot the digital and the physical. It's called InstaWatch. Imagine that you go into a supercenter or in a store of Wal-Mart and buy one of the selected Blu-rays or DVDs. And you get that piece of old technology in your hand and you go to the cashier. You got a receipt again. So you scan the code of that Blu-ray or DVD and that receipt, you enable to get a digital copy of that Blu-ray and DVD. So imagine that you can start to watch the video, the movie that you just acquired when you're going to the parking lot. So it's good for the parents, it's good for the kids, so they can literally start to watch in the parking lot.

This is a really good example how we are bridging physical and digital again. E-receipt is a very interesting area that it can start to improve more and more. So the next big thing will be predictive shopping lists and highly relevant digital coupons for you.

Third example on this journey -- so look at the pharmacy. We are super excited with one of the new features that [just were allowed]. It helped us to our customers to make easier to get a refill prescriptions. So again, just like we can get your medicine and scan the code; this, we will automatically going to you to get the refills made online. The customers love it.

So I would say nearly all the scores, customers start to use it.

Right now, one third of the total online refills that you have digitally, having done through this application.

So smartphones is the beginning. When you look at and see tablets, and now there's a kind of a fusion of tablets and smartphones, they are becoming bigger or smaller, you never know, right? So our customers are enjoying more and more to spend time buying with us on the tablet. Jamie Iannone just talked to you about the new application around Sam's Club, it's great, the members love it. They start to buy and find more things in our site.

But tablet for us is also the start of this new revolution in terms of a new online experience that you are bringing to the customers.

When you roll out the new site and you are just roll out the new site, Wal-Mart.com here in [your asphalt], some of you have noticed that the change little to the homepage, we started the design the new site from the tablet. It gave us a lot of possibilities. First, because more and more again, customers are using this to buy in search in web. Secondly is because if we make this right, beautiful and comfortable for our users, our customers, it's easier to translate this to a bigger screen. And ours is easy to go in a smaller screen. And now again, blending size of screen, nobody knows. So that's why we started our design with the tablet.

So let me show you a quick demo about the new site, what's going on with the new site. We're going to see that some features here, probably you can see like, the homepage, right, that we have the vast majority of (inaudible) getting the [consumer] homepage. Some other features will be like rolling out and a small portion of the traffic is seeing these features right now. And finally the checkout, they're going to show it to you guys -- you are the first guys outside of my labs that are going to see this. So I hope that it works and I hope you enjoy.

Before you ask me, yeah, we're going to roll out but we don't have any date yet. So if you can give me some feedback, that would be great.

This is Steve. Steve, guys. Do it right, yeah?

So let's see there. When our customer arrives for our homepage, they will see two things that they ask of this. The customer may ask to get easy to find and discover new things in our site. So again, millions of choices, millions of products. It's not easy to find.

So the first thing that we did was like, we increased the search blocks. So the search blocks is bigger and easier for people to find and start to browse things. We also have a bigger area for creation, so more recommendations. You can see that the search blocks is of course the same during the surfing and the browsing. It helps as the customers find something, I can go and search better.

So let me show you one of the categories that the customer also has a lot to browse, but has some challenge right now because of the choices and options that are so much.

So in going to departments and see furniture, and then furniture, we're going to see that categories like furniture, clothing, when have choices like colors, of sizes. It is really complicated right now to surf and find out what they're looking for. Just because when you go to a session like this in [footnotes], you have to click one of the items and see the colors.

So you have to go to item page back and forth. Customers don't like this. So they asked me to put in better presentation. And we came up with this design. So you see this footnote here, there are some colors and you can choose, for example, pink, and you don't need to leave the page. That's why tablets help us to give them better browsing without leaving the page and come to back and forth kind of a thing. So I like this feature by way. It's pretty cool.

Let me go fast in this typing stuff -- no typos.

So if a customer comes and tries to find a new television, and they're going to find a new item page, the new item page right now is not available for the vast majority of (inaudible). We are testing, evaluating, and finding these. But again, we could be able to give all the information that the customer wants in just one screen. Bigger pictures, the information about price, easily to see, easy to add to cart, and especially the shipment and delivery method.

Our customers love to have the ability to change between shipping to their home or any other location, or pick up in our stores. And by way, this item, you can pick up today.

Can you see this one -- no, yeah.

So we go to add to cart. And then again, the output that you have that help us to create assortment to our customers come with something usable for them. If somebody buys a TV, probably they would need a mount or a Blu-ray. Another thing that our customers love is to play around the threshold of free shipping that you have. If something that you are buying in your basket is sort of -- the [thorough] basket is both $50, you can get the free shipping. And this bar helps the customer to see how they are close or not to the $50.

So let's go to checkout -- yeah, changed apps, yeah.

So this is a new checkout. One [funny] thing in this, in three steps, the customer can come, see what's going on in terms of shipping, put your information of shipping, credit card, done -- without leaving the page. So here, you can select one of the shipping methods -- let's say this. I want to get this faster. I could choose pickup today, then come the shipping address, I didn't leave the page.

Let's send to [Christine], one of our engineers. She'll love this CD. Then I can select the payment method.

Another cool thing that the customers love, it is the ability to pay in cash. I will select the credit card. I can review the order -- and done, that's it, pretty simple.

If I want to change something, I don't need to leave the page. So just come back and did it again.

So -- thanks Steve. So I hope you enjoyed a little what we have done so far in our site. We are innovating faster. This platform [NG], is a very nice technology piece that can help us innovate and deliver faster products to customers. We're creating a new digital experience. Combining to move forward to our physical capacity. We're creating new ways to serve our persons.

Now, I'd like to hand over to Michael. He will show you the little magic that happens after I place the order in the button. So it's digital to physical.

We're working hard together -- we're pretty much attached (inaudible) to make this happen from the digital to the physical, the best way for our customers. Thank you.

MICHAEL BENDER, COO - GLOBAL ECOMMERCE, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Thanks for the help, appreciate it. Good afternoon everybody.

Convenience means different things to different people. And we're putting commerce where our customers wanted to be; to their doors, to a store, and even right to their trunks, or boots. They're in the U.K., busy families are saving time with ASDA grocery home delivery and pick up. And ASDA has been a pioneer and is a world leader when it comes to online grocery.

In addition to having your groceries delivered to your door, ASDA has been expanding pick up points both at stores and in new convenient locations. And in fact this year, ASDA is doubling the number of pick up points at two stations, which can save a busy London commuter hours and means that dinner happens on time.

They're now testing a standalone pod that's basically an ATM for your groceries. I have to tell you, it's really, really cool. And we're sharing this experience around the world. And while a busy commuter in China is not the same as the two right there in London, their needs are very similar. They want convenience.

And in Shanghai, you can get an order delivered in just hours, or pick it up from a hub right in your apartment complex. In this particular case, your apartment complex has 80 thousand people in it. And while the closest hypermarket is only a kilometer away, it might as well be in Beijing. And small business owners and moms now have a new BFF, Sam's Club Pickup.

Fernando talked about how we've improved the mobile experience and we're making it faster and easier for members to pick up those orders at their club, sometimes without even leaving their cars. And we're also making it faster and easier to reorder the items they buy regularly. And here in the US, we're testing new access points including the standalone pickup location here in Bentonville that you heard Judith mentioned.

We expanded our test of grocery delivery to Denver last year, and we added store pickup this year there. And we're seeing a great response. In fact, four out of five customers are coming back for more there in Denver.

Let's take a look at this video and I think this gives you a little snapshot of what's happening with our customer here.

Pretty cool.

NEIL ASHE: It is pretty cool. We pull all that stuff together and I love working with these guys as we put this team together and hear what they're talking about. You know, Michael, you've been us for several months now and you came over from the retail organization. How have you found ecommerce to be different?

MICHAEL BENDER: eCommerce is a lot of fun, Neil. And one of the things that I've noticed here on the two months that I've been on board is the speed and the magnitude of the change that seems to be taking place in this space. It's a lot of fun to really grab onto that.

What it means to me is the importance of making sure that we stay in step with the customer and their changes, and data, and our ability to really leverage that data to create a more intimate relationship with our customers from the standpoint of really making sure that we're developing long-term relationships versus just the transaction here and there. Those are two big things that I've noticed that are really important about this business.

NEIL ASHE: That's awesome. And you've already had an impact and you're helping us realize operational excellence and we greatly appreciate it. So thank you.

And Fernando, you joined us from Latin America obviously where you ran the Wal-Mart.com. But before that, you built [Tera] into, not only one of the largest media properties in Latin America, but also in the world. And you've been around this digital content and experience thing basically since it started. What is a good digital experience?

FERNANDO MADEIRA: I think that must be simple and clean. But at the same time, must be beautiful and firm. No excuse to not be beautiful and firm.

And I think that the eCommerce right now lacks a little bit of this last part. It is probably -- the eCommerce is so focused in transactions right now, that all the design is around transaction. I hope that you see that, you know, we are changing this a little bit and your design around the customer needs. And that's what's super exciting.

NEIL ASHE: That's awesome. You did a great job and we're excited that you're here. Thank you both very much.

You know, Doug started this by talking about price assortment, access and experience. And you can see how those things come together in new and different ways where the best of the digital content experience and the strength of our retail operations and our operating excellence.

We're pulling all these together and we're doing it all around the world. So we've talked about the fact that we're focused on key markets. Those key markets we've talked about the US, the U.K., Brazil and China -- the markets we operate in will be responsible for about 75% of eCommerce revenues in 2020. And in addition to the markets that I've mentioned, we're also in Argentina, in Canada, Chile, Japan, Mexico and South Africa. And this year, we launched the Cash and Carry B2B site in India.

And to do all these, to serve our customers around the world, we feel like it's in -- imperative that we build a world class digital foundation. That's primarily in four key areas. The first is our technology platform, the second is around data and insights, the third is around our next generation supply chain, and of course all of these is powered by talent.

So first, let me start with our global technology platform that we call Pangea. You've heard us talked to you about a little bit along the way. This year, we delivered some of the most significant pieces of Pangea. But it really is a process. Pangea is now -- the project is now Pangea, the commerce operating system.

Over the last two and half years, we've done a soup to nuts rebuild of our entire technology architecture and it impacts all parts of our business. It includes the frontend systems that Fernando described, whether it's a smartphone, a tablet, or a computer, all of those are powered by Pangea. It includes the backend systems necessary to deliver all of those pickup and delivery options that Michael talked about. Those are powered by Pangea. It includes our datacenters and our servers and all of the infrastructure necessary to -- that are -- to run our business that our technologists care most about. We built our own cloud capabilities both public and private at significant levels of efficiency. We build platform as a service. We built infrastructure as a service, which allows us to be best in breed in our web operations.

In English, that means we can innovate faster and we can deliver new features in a day versus in weeks or months before. And Pangea is also providing the foundation for our data capabilities, which connect those store and online data together to better serve our customers.

You know, our goal for data is really simple. We want to help our customers find one more item, we want to help our merchants sell one more item, and we want to help our operators do all of these while building one less building. And when we do that, we impact the business model of the entire company.

So let's talk a little bit of each one of those. For our customers, we build what we call P13N, that's our personalization engine. It helps customers find new items which are directed exactly to their interest, whether they're in store, they're online, or in our app.

For our merchants, Dave talked a lot about the tools that we built to pull together pricing and assortment which allowed them to make sure they have the right items for sale at the right price. And for our marketers and suppliers, our new WMX marketing platform allows them to target better and to take ways out of their marketing spend. So they can reinvest that money in low prices for our customers. And for our operators, we built a multi-channel sourcing engine which allows us to identify where to put inventory and then where to pull that inventory from to most efficiently serve your order however you want it delivered or picked up, which brings me to our next generation supply chain.

We call it that because it's a supply chain that only we can build. It isn't an eCommerce network, or a retail network, it's a customer network. The fulfillment centers, the shared distribution centers, our ship from store locations are all tied together by one of the biggest and most efficient transportation networks in the country.

This year, we'll add two new fulfillment centers in Georgia and another in Pennsylvania, each over a million square feet. And these are similar to the ones we've announced already in Fort Worth, in Indianapolis, and the first one at Pennsylvania. We now have 83 supercenters that have been activated to fulfill online orders, up from 39 last year.

Altogether, this is a dynamic network that can serve customers today. And more importantly, it can adapt to how they want to be served tomorrow.

I'm really excited about the leadership team that we put together to run global eCommerce. You met Fernando and Michael a few minutes ago, and Jaime was here as part of Ross' presentation. Anne Myong joins us as our Chief Financial Officer. She had been working with Greg at Wal-Mart China and prior to that, she was the CFO of several technology companies. And you'll get to hear from Jeremy King, our Chief Technology Officer in a video here in a minute.

But more important than the leadership team, we've built a -- and continue to add to a talent-dense Silicon Valley operation. We're building and internet technology company inside the world's largest retailer, which means we're acquiring a lot of talent. We're doing it through hiring, we're doing it through university relations, and we're obviously making some acquisitions. We're hiring some of the best and the brightest.

In fact, we have one of the highest hiring standards in the industry. Over last two years since we started this process, we only make offers to 1.6% of the people who apply for jobs at Wal-Mart eCommerce.

We're also recruiting on-campus. Our interim program this summer had 80% masters and PhD candidates. I was riding up in an elevation in one of those -- with one of our interns before they left in August and he said I'm back off to Stanford tomorrow, and I said well how was your summer? And he said it was awesome. I said what do you work on? He said I'm working on some of the merchant tools. He said, Neil, I had no idea that I could have this kind of impact at a place the scale of Wal-Mart. So I said well, the important question is are you coming back? And he said absolutely. I've got to go finish this Stanford thing and then I'm on my way back. Those are the kind of people we're pulling together.

But we're also acquiring technology startups. We've made about 14 acquisitions over the past two years, which brings together some unique talents and technical capabilities which all come together to serve as we're talking about.

We're also operating like an internet technology company. What does that mean? It means we operate in an integrated way between business and technology. And it means we operate at speed. We've embraced Agile and our small teams work together and they issue new code on a weekly basis.

But since I can't take you all to San Bruno, I thought we try and find a way to bring San Bruno here to you. So we're going to roll a quick video which -- of something we call Demo Day. Once a quarter, these small teams come together and report out to the entire company on the progress that they've made. Guys, let's take a look at the video.

That is really -- those four days are some of my favorite four days of the year, because you really get to see all the people that are making the difference everyday and you can see in their eyes the passion for what they're doing and for why they're doing.

And it all adds up and it all works.

We have a much better customer experience around the world than we had before, and as a result, we're growing and we're growing fast.

We're growing faster than the market in each one of the countries in which we operate. And we expect to continue to grow faster than the market in the future. Charles is going to go through the specifics of our financials, but we have high aspirations. And we're going to continue to have high aspirations. We're focused on building an enduring business. We're making good choices about where to invest and what to build. And we're making the investments necessary to win in the long-term.

Our results are reflection of what we're now able to do for customers; to anticipate their needs and to deliver new experiences to help them save time and money and to make their lives just a little bit better.

And there's no time that all of that matters more than during the Holidays. Think about it. This Thanksgiving, there will be a mom who orders her groceries online on Wednesday morning. And she'll drive and pick that up that afternoon without even leaving her car.

On Thursday, after a great Thanksgiving dinner, dad goes to the store because he loves the excitement of Black Friday. He's going to go get a tablet for mom, and he knows he sure to get it because we have a one hour guarantee. He gets a voucher. And before he even leaves the store, he redeems it on Wal-Mart.com. He's taking it to a powered by Pangea page that reminds him through a personalization engine that he was also looking at that Elsa doll for his daughter, which he adds to his cart.

A few days later, mom goes holiday shopping and buys her son that Transformers DVD that he's totally been jonesing for. And right away, we put a digital copy in her VUDU account.

So Christmas morning comes along and the daughter opens the doll and she starts screaming with joy, the son rips open his DVD, but he wants to watch it and he wants to watch it now. But you know, we've got to hop in the car and head over to grandma's house. No problem. Mom fires up that new tablet that she just opened, goes to VUDU and her son gets to watch that Transformers DVD all the way to his grandparents' house.

Of course, I would be remise if I didn't point out that there's a whole slew of additional products that the grandparents bought at Wal-Mart.com on Cyber Monday where you have the best deals of the entire Holiday Season. Pretty cool, huh?

We're building best in class eCommerce and we're marrying it with the world's -- with the assets to the world's largest retailer to do for customers what no one else can do. We anticipate their needs and we offer them access, experience, assortment and price in ways that only we can do.

We're changing a lot. And we're changing it fast. But at the end of the day, what really matters hasn't changed at all. It's still all about making our customers' lives just a little bit better, no matter what state or country they live in. It's about helping them have a special Holiday Season.

Most important, is that we know who we are, and we know what matters. It's what Wal-Mart does best and we're delivering Wal-Mart your way. Thank you.

I'm going to invite my colleagues up to answer any of your questions.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay, Q&A. We'll go with Joe. You haven't had one yet -- Claire, we'll go back to Joe or starters.

JOE FELDMAN, ANALYST, TELSEY ADVISORY GROUP: Thank you. Joe Feldman of Telsey Advisory Group.

I wanted to ask you about what you're seeing from a crash shopping standpoint, just like any statistics you can show with us, like people that are shopping, you know, mobile or online, and what they do in the stores. And if you are doing a pickup, is there any additional items added to the basket, or are you losing sort of that impulse shopper. Any other color you can provide would be great.

NEIL ASHE: So we sprinkled some of those statistics, Joe, throughout the presentation. And I'll summarize them as follows; which is that if you shop with us in multiple formats, you're -- you'll shop with us more than anyone else does. And the more you shop online or on mobile, the more your store shop increases as well.

And ASDA, about where they've been doing it, of course, you pick up longer than we have here in the US, about 40% at the time, people hop out of the car and go in and buy additional items.

But taken all together, it's what affirms, I think, everything that we're talking about doing here, which is that when you are convenient for the customer, when you're delivering there what they want their way, they're going to spend more money with you. And we see that pretty much everywhere we go.

And then finally I've talked about Savings Catcher for a second because we've weaved that through the presentation. What a simple application. You know, as I walked out of Pleasant Grove store yesterday, of course I scanned that receipt, it went to my account and I know I can feel confident that I've got the -- that I've gotten the best price available on this market.

Well customers have realized that and their shop as a result of it, has increased dramatically.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay, Michael, we'll go to Matt who has another question here.

MATT NEMER, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Thanks so much. Matt Nemer here, Wells Fargo.

So Google this week announced the shipping membership club, and Amazon has a pretty popular shipping membership club. Do you see that in your future? It seems like you have the assets to do that? You know, if not, what's holding you back?

NEIL ASHE: It turns out everybody wants to sell product to people around the country, right Matt?

We -- you know, as we've talked about with our shipping program -- and Fernando outlined it in the -- in his presentation; we've started with -- by offering everyday low price shipping. So if you buy a threshold, you'll get free shipping and we work to make that as simple as possible.

We will continue to evaluate what shipping options we think matter most for customers. And if we want to make a change at some point in the future, we will.

But we think it's really more about the whole thing than it is about the shipping thing. So part of -- as we thing about this integration of digital and physical, and we think about how we're serving customers, Greg and Judith and Dave and Ross all talked about this concept of pickup and delivery. And what that means is that we can be there whenever, wherever, however you want us to be, which is no one has ever done that effectively before.

And so we believe that changes the game. And for every customer we've talked to whether they're at Denver, in Bentonville or in Leads or in Shanghai, they all are in -- or in Sam's Club, they are all kind of saying the same thing which is we value the choice that you provide us. And we believe that's the ultimate driver of that deep and frequent relationship with our customers.

MATT NEMER: And just one follow up, if I could -- could you comment on the price gap relative to your major online competitors? It seems like it is widened in your favor, but I'm just curious kind of where you think you're at.

NEIL ASHE: Sure, I'll start. Fernando, if you want to add anything, please do.

We obviously pay significant attention to the competitive environment, and many of those merchant tools that we've developed are so that we know exactly what products are selling and for what price is where. And we are known for price and we will be known for price. And so we've gotten really sharp in our ability to develop a price gap in the marketplace online and we'll continue to do that.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Fernando, were you going to add anything to that, or Neil covered it? Okay, good.

FERNANDO MADEIRA: No, we are doing this in our markets by the way. It's not only US So we're tracking our -- [we're all tracking] not only US, but also Brazil, China, all over the place. So we are committed to everyday low price, and that's why we're pursuing.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay, Claire, we'll go to Wayne. He hasn't had one yet.

WAYNE HOOD, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks Carol. Question I guess, is online, assortment and also back to the pricing issue.

Last year during the Holiday Season, I think even it persists today, you go on to retail website and you have like, in the toy category available online but not in stores, or vice versa.

You know, I guess as a shopper, she looks at that and said I'm indifferent, you know, I don't care whether you have it online, I want it in both places for you to, you know, get my business.

So my question is as you go into the Holiday Season this year, and you think about those categories and her challenge around where she's going to go, how do you say to her I have it both in store and online?

And then secondly which I think you hit to a minute ago, is that how do you establish a pricing leadership online like you've done with brick and mortar, right, with everyday low cost and everyday low price? But Savings Catches does not match online pricing, so she's looking at that going -- I can get competitive prices and you know, in brick and mortar, but when I go online, you're not necessarily the price leader. How do you bridge that gap of her perceiving you as being a price leader, whatever venue it is and then assortment leader where she could get it, you know, at the same time?

NEIL ASHE: Yeah, I might merge those two concepts and talk about toys at Christmas because it's a great way to explain a number of different things.

So for -- take that Elsa doll as a great example. We will sell through those Elsa dolls obviously this Holiday Season. There are only so many of them in the world, and we've got to put them where we think we can serve customers best.

And so at some point, we'll run out of those that we have online and yet there's still maybe some available in stores sprinkled around the country. So we'll continue to show them, say they're not available online but you can pick up that item in the store.

The rest of the market takes a different path which is that they allow price to rise once stock gets low. So when it transitions after the selloff period of the first party inventory, they'll allow merchants -- they'll allow their marketplace partners' price to rise. And so the -- and to capture that difference. We won't do that because it's against our price promise, it's against who we are.

And so if we said -- and when you think about Savings Catcher, said Okay, well, should we have Elsa dolls on Savings Catcher, or which price would we match? Would we match it at one moment, at the next moment if it's in a dynamic pricing environment, it's a -- it's different. We're already delivering that lowest price.

And so the environments are slightly different between the retail and eCommerce environment around price. And I believe we have the most mature and effective way to deliver customers what we know they really want, which is the lowest price whichever setting they're in.

And we'll continue to work hard to make sure that we've got that doll online for as long as we possibly can. But we want to make sure that as many people get that as possible, and we will not gauge them with pricing in the process.

FERNANDO MADEIRA: And if I can add, if you look into other way, there are zillions of other items that we can provide online that the supercenter cannot carry just because of the physical limitation, right? So right now at supercenter, normally has 125 thousand items, so different SKUs, and you have more than 7 million online.

So we work together at Duncan -- my merchant team works together -- Duncan's merchant team to make sure that we have the best assortment in terms of, you know -- what they need is in terms of customer in store, versus online. So clothing is a good example, right? Clothing -- you have a limited space in the store, but you know that the customers need more.

And then again, if you look at the store and the new search item stuff in our application helps -- the customer say I don't have this, but I have it online and I can order, and also get in the store if I want that.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Claire, we'll go to Michael.

MICHAEL LASSER, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you so much. It's Michael Lasser from UBS.

Can you talk about how your online customer, your average online customer in the US compares to your average in-store customer? And as part of that, can you talk about how fast your eCommerce-only customers are growing relative to your multichannel customers?

NEIL ASHE: So I'll take the first cut at that. If you want to jump in, Fernando on how we're growing those.

Averages are really dangerous thing. So -- and the idea of an average customer especially in an environment where we can serve customers one at a time online is a really dangerous concept as well.

The -- because we're figuring out personalization and because we're figuring out how to serve these, we're able to expand our ranges as Fernando indicated, we're up to about 8 million items. Three-quarters of those sales come from items that aren't sold in our stores. So we can reach customers that the items that aren't in the supercenter and/or don't live close by to one of our stores.

So obviously they've grown exceptionally fast. In fact, that's been a large portion of our growth over the last five to ten years.

Now, we're really focused with things like Savings Catcher on how -- because we want to tie this all together, how can we grow the customers that we already had. Now Doug said at the outset that we're really focused on value-conscious customers. And what I like to say is that technology doesn't discriminate. It doesn't care where you live or you know, what you're shopping for, what you look like, or what you earn. And everyone wants value.

So when you take those two things together and you take the power of technology and you marry to value-conscious customers, we of course are going to grow fast. And we're growing fast in customers that we haven't had in stores prior and we're now growing even faster among the customers that are already shopping at our supercenters.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Neil, we're on this side with Patrick first.

PATRICK MCKEEVER, ANALYST, MKM PARTNERS: Thanks Carol. Just sort of a big picture question, and I'm sure I'm not the only one with this question. But how do you make the order online and have it to put in your trunk financially make sense to the company? I mean, it's great for the consumer. But you know, it seems counterintuitive to a lot of -- what the things that, you know, the company has been built on, in a way. If you take Sam's Club for example, you know, I thought the idea was, you know, bring it in on a pallet and in some ways let the customer do the work. So anyway ...

NEIL ASHE: I think it's a great question. I think Doug, you mentioned in your opening how retail seems to come in cycles and what goes around comes around. And it's worth noting that Sam Walton built Wal-Mart of the concept of not having a stocker have to go pick up an item from behind the counter.

But the customer, if he hadn't changed, if we hadn't changed to what the customer wanted, then they're going to go do that somewhere else.

One of the most exciting things about the example you described around that grocery pickup is that there's so many other pieces of the puzzle that require efficiency. And we're pretty darn good at all those pieces of efficiency.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Right. Neil, I was just going to say one of the things that we can point to on a grocery pickup and delivery effort and I'm citing Denver as the opportunity where we're testing right now that we're doing to improve the profitability just one small example, that we're taking from the store and using that in the connection between digital and physical, is what we call [Aisle Location]. We use that to help our store associates and those who will pick the product in the stores to be able to direct them right to the item on the shelf.

So if you can imagine it's all about steps and making sure that you're taking as few as possible. Aisle Location allows our associates who are picking that product to not just walk randomly up and down the aisle, but to actually go to the section of the aisle, if it's a bottle of Tide, it will say it's, you know, in this section of that aisle. So that's one example of how we're trying to take cost out of the system and improve the profitability.

NEIL ASHE: And when you do, you improve the store operations as a result ...

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Yeah, that's a great byproduct Neil, of what we're learning in Denver, is that we're getting sharper operationally particularly in area -- you've heard Greg mentioned earlier today in his remarks about fresh, the ability to turn product there and making sure that our fresh opportunity is as great as it can be for our customers. It's improved through the effort that we see going on in Denver right now. It's still a test, but really encouraging results.

NEIL ASHE: And the best businesses are those which are hard to execute, because when we figure out how to execute those, it raises the bar. And so what we really love about this is that the customers appear to really love it and it's really hard to do. So we believe that we can create differentiations from our competitors.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: And we have one more on this side from Thomas and then we'll go Michael, upfront to Dan Bender.

THOMAS PAULSON, ANALYST, CORNERSTONE CAPITAL: Thank you. Thomas Paulson, Cornerstone Capital.

I had three questions. The first one is when you think about the physical shopping trip, it's got serendipity to it, it's got treasure hunt into it, it's buying more than you really should, particularly at the Holidays.

So when you think of your online channel, how dilutive do you think it is to that traditional ship -- trip? That's the first question. Or, do you have ways through technology to have what would be the equivalent of basket? Thanks.

NEIL ASHE: I would argue that there are hardly any more serendipitous events than shopping online. Fernando or Jamie, do you want to talk about how we make that experience so engaging?

FERNANDO MADEIRA: Right. So again as I mentioned, the thing that must be beautiful and fun and help people to have, you know, fun doing their buying.

So there are some steps. I showed a couple examples about how we can increase affection in terms of specific items like the television. But there are many others that you can just (inaudible) raising pop up to the customer saying -- oh, those makes sense that I can buy these and increase my basket. We've seen these increasing internally in the last, you know, last new deployments; that we deployed with the new P3, (inaudible) that Neil mentioned. And you're starting to improve.

There's a second piece that is connected to the other question that is this hybrid new browsing. So you start your browsing in your smartphone and you go to the tablet and you go after, to desktop. So this allows us to create different kinds of spaces, or [retail] spaces inside of that screen, and enable people to discover new stuff. And that's what our [all those] are working together with our merchants to say this is something that it should show to the customer at this specific point. I feel that that is the right way to do and that is a beautiful design that it can apply on applications in our browser to do this.

THOMAS PAULSON: All right. And then the second question I had is you're obviously talking about increased investments in ecommerce in this channel versus a physical store and you obviously have to do it given the competitive landscape.

In the medium term, do you see this channel being neutral to your segment margin, accretive to your segment margin and similar to your free cash flow profile?

FERNANDO MADEIRA: Overtime we expect this -- we expect ecommerce business to add growth, to have a slightly lower operating margin than our brick and mortar retail business and a high -- have a higher return on capital.

So, yes, we expect it to deliver growth in cash flow to the business going forward. And I wanted to just, you know, add on one more thing to your first point -- to your first question which is that of course we're focused on the stock up trip and I thought Greg was really articulate and Dave about how we're going to constantly be working, but we're not competing for a trip, we're competing for a relationship.

We want your customer, we want our customers to shop with us because we solve all of their problems. And so, our view is that all of those ecommerce sales are sales that we've made because we've helped you do something better, easier, and we've earned that piece of business from you so we'll continue to do that.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay, we'll go upfront to Dan.

DANIEL BINDER: Given the dynamic pricing environment that you described online, I imagine there's a lot of instances where prices are lower online than they are in the store. I'm just curious what your experiences been with the customer who comes into the store and are they actively trying to compare pricing not just against Amazon and others, but also against your own website. Has that proven to be margin destroying in any meaningful way and how do you deal with that given people, you know, a lot of trust that the price that they're getting from you is the lowest price, but, you know, sometimes they'll find it lower online?

NEIL ASHE: Yes, the -- so, obviously w are competing in two different markets. That store that individual walks in has a catch bin area then -- and that's where managers trading with the -- inside that catch bin area in a competitive environment. Obviously we're competing online with a number of different players.

And so when the -- when and if those prices ever get out of whack, the promise that we're making to customers is we're going to get it sorted out for them. So one of the first things that Greg has done is to make sure that that process is going to work effectively, so that if that happens, where those get disconnected, then we'll take the store associates in that store, we'll take care of them.

And it's frankly a really small number of customers that are impacted by this. Because we're Wal-Mart some -- lots of times there'll be articles written about a single instance, but it really is a -- it's a relatively small number.

The price and the promise of price remains the same, which is, we're out there working to try and make sure we have the lowest price and -- that you will find as a customer.

CLAIRE BABINEAUX-FONTENOT: Neil, that wraps up the Q&A desk. I know you guys have more questions, but we'll also have another Q&A, Neil will be back up with Doug at the end. But we ...

NEIL ASHE: Thank you all.

presentation

CAROL SCHUMACHER: ... need now this time to bring Charles Holley up to the stage. Charles as you know is our CFO, and Charles is going to give you a number of the piece that you haven't heard just yet, so Charles?

CHARLES HOLLEY, CFO, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Carol. Good afternoon.

Well, thanks for being here today and I hope today's been useful so far. And it's great to see so many familiar faces and if you're new to covering Wal-Mart or as an investor of our shares, we're glad that you took the time to join us.

Now, before I cover the numbers part of today's presentation, I think it's important to remember that we remain focused on the customer. We have over 50 years of history, adapting to meeting the changing needs of our customer. We're confident in our ability to continue that legacy.

We know we have to evolve how we serve our customer, not only saving them money with low prices, but also saving them time. Offering a one-stop shop or broad assortment has always saved our customer's time.

Now today, we're investing in technology to provide customers with even more convenience. Well, we'll also give customers an endless aisle of assortment. More convenient access and an improved customer experience, regardless of how they choose to shop.

Now, ecommerce initiatives are being integrated into all areas of our business, and I hope one of your takeaways from today is that we are further accelerating our focus on ecommerce and digital initiatives.

Now to get a better understanding of the numbers, I think it's important to break them down between the traditional brick and mortar and then the ecommerce and digital businesses.

Before I dive into the details, I'd like to provide a financial update with a look at a scorecard that we sent out to you last year. We experienced a tougher sales environment globally than we anticipated a year ago. Now we now believe our total net sales growth will be between 2% and 3%.

The two primary reasons have been the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates and a greater than anticipated impact from the reduction in snap back in November of last year. Now, remember we will cycle through that this November 1.

We plan to grow square footage at the same rate as last year and we should come close to that goal. We plan for expenses to grow slower than sales and on a reported basis, we would expect to achieve that goal.

However, if we'd exclude the cost that we called out in the fourth quarter related to operating leases, restructuring and the Brazil indirect taxes from our comparisons, we would not leverage our expenses.

The primary reasons would be the slower sales growth and the additional $500 million in healthcare cost for our US business.

Operating income on a reported basis should grow close to the rate of sales, on an underlying basis, considering what I just described for expenses. Operating income would grow at a slower rate than sales and again, primary reasons would be the slower sales growth and the $500 million in healthcare costs.

Now although I think we still have strong cash flow, we have a lot of room for improvement. The biggest cash flow opportunity relates to working capital or inventory growth versus our payables growth.

Working capital management remains a very high priority for us and should make a meaningful difference as we look to the future for our cash flow. Over the last four years, we've given up over $4 billion in working capital just through inventory growing at a faster rate than payables.

Some of this can be explained by the acceleration of our direct sourcing activities where we take ownership and initiate payment of core. But a large portion is attributable to opportunities we have to better manage our supply chain.

And I hope you heard from the segments today, this is going to be a focus for all of our operations. Now I think we have a great opportunity to reverse this trend, which will in turn help drive cash flow and returns.

Okay, let's talk about the traditional brick and mortar business. Remember -- now, this slide only includes the traditional brick and mortar business. CapEx for this part of our operations should trend down in fiscal year '15 by between $700 million and $1.2 billion.

This reduction is primarily driven by the international segment where we have moderated new store growth in Mexico and Brazil, and shifted investment spend in the UK for ecommerce and digital.

For fiscal year '16, we would expect our CapEx to decrease by approximately $850 million compared to fiscal year '15. Now this is primarily due to a reduction in the US Supercenter expansion.

But as a reminder, this is not a permanent reduction in the large box format. It's a moderation of our increase as the US team works to ensure our large boxes in the US they're better aligned to better serve our customers in the future.

This also includes between 200 and 220 neighborhood markets in the US. Now, if the Wal-Mart team feels they can do more and meet or exceed the customer's expectations with sights and assortment, then we could certainly increase that number, but for right now, we feel comfortable with the number of neighborhood markets in the US for next year.

Our business in Canada, Mexico, and UK have been the primary drivers of our profitability in cash flow and international. And you also heard Dave mentioned that China is a key market for us as it will continue to be a driver of top line growth and improving margins.

Now, turning to sales and operating performance for the traditional brick and mortar business. Now, although sales growth stalled somewhat in the business since fiscal year '14, we would expect to grow between 2.5% and 3.5% on average over the next three years for sales.

We would expect profits to grow at a somewhat slower pace over the next two or three years, as there's a shift in the mix between food and general merchandise, although some operations in international will be expected to increase overall operating margins, over that timeframe.

Now, of course these numbers would exclude the impact of any acquisitions or restructurings we might do in the future.

In order to keep up with customer's expectations, we need to accelerate our offering above assortment and access. Now that leads me to the ecommerce and digital business.

We will continue to accelerate our investment in this area. We're going to create a world class platform for our customers and further integrate the shopping experience, creating an endless aisle appealing to the customer's desire for convenience, access, and assortment, of course all underpins Wal-Mart's low prices.

We would expect CapEx related to these investments to be between $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion for fiscal year '16. This investment includes technology spend for both ecommerce and digital efforts across all markets.

Now, globally we expect to finish fiscal year '15 with around $12.5 billion of ecommerce sales and $13.5 billion in gross merchandise value or what is commonly referred to as GMV. Now, think of GMV as the volume of merchandise transacted through our websites, so generally it's the gross merchandise value of ecommerce sales plus the merchandise value of third party transactions processed through our websites on which we would earn a commission.

This marketplace part of our business continue to grow at a very rapid rate. Now looking forward, we expect some increase in global ecommerce sales of around 25% in fiscal year '16, and then we would anticipate a ramp up so the growth rate over 16 through 18 would be averaged around 30% to 40%, both for sales and GMV.

We will continue to invest through our P&L as we build up this business.

Now, the operating loss you see on this graph, it represents the corporate support, technology support, overhead costs related to ecommerce and the digital efforts along with our operating losses for ecommerce that are embedded in our segment P&L. So we put it all together so you could see it.

The heaviest investment comes over the next 18 to 24 months, then we would expect to see operating losses start to moderate at the end of that period.

Now, why are we investing so heavily in ecommerce? Well, I hope it's pretty obvious . You know, market data that you've seen before, retail spending is going to grow over $5 trillion globally within the next five years and we see ecommerce capturing a disproportionate share of that growth.

Stores will continue to be a very important part of our customer shopping needs, but we know the customer is and will continue to become more reliant on a digital experience for retail. With over 11,000 stores and growing, we feel we're in an incredible position to capture a large portion of that growth as we integrate our digital assets with our physical assets.

So, what does it mean when you put it all together for the total company? If we take a look at the key metrics that we're forecasting for fiscal year '16, we anticipate a sales increase of 2% to 4%. Now that would translate to approximately $10 billion to $20 billion of sales growth.

Square footage growth of 26 million to 30 million square feet, operating expenses will grow at a rate somewhat faster than sales, as we invest in new technology along with ecommerce and digital capabilities.

Operating income will be somewhat slack to slightly down as we make these new investments related to ecommerce and digital. Even with the increased investment, we plan to have strong free cash flow.

Now, before addressing our cash flow, I want to remind everybody as in the past, we start with our commitment to maintaining a double A credit rating. In terms of allocation, we think about the priorities for our cash in three ways, growth first, and then dividends, and then share repurchases.

With our cash flow, we will commit to growth where we see good returns for our shareholders. Now this would include new stores, ecommerce and technology and acquisitions.

Next, we want to pay a good dividend and then, with the cash that's leftover, we will repurchase our shares. And again, it's all going to depend on that double A credit rating.

Looking back over the last four years, or last few years, we generated a fairly consistent level of free cash flow, even in periods where we've been investing heavily in the business. Now, based on what you've heard today related to future investments and working capital management, you can expect this to continue to deliver strong free cash flow this year and going forward.

Now, as for CapEx, this is the traditional way that we've shown new CapEx with ecommerce investments that are embedded in the segments. Our total CapEx for fiscal year '15 is forecasted to be between $12.5 billion and $13 billion.

In terms of our fiscal year '16 CapEx, we anticipate spending less than we will in fiscal year '15. Taking the midpoint of our ranges would be a reduction of around $500 million year over year.

As I've shared with you a few minutes ago, this increase is primarily driven by our moderation of CapEx spend in large formats. The majority of the reduction will be in Wal-Mart US, with smaller reductions in international spends.

Now, I've already talked to the shift in spend from traditional brick and mortar to ecommerce and digital, so I want to breakdown our total CapEx to give you that additional visibility.

The fiscal year '15 CapEx spend related to traditional brick and mortar will be down by around $950 million year over year, using the midpoint of expectations. In fiscal year '16, taking the midpoint of our ranges for traditional brick and mortar, the reduction in CapEx would be about $850 million.

A CapEx spend on ecommerce and digital will increase from $400 million last year, to approximately $1 billion this year. And next year in fiscal year '16, we would expect to increase CapEx by a further $200 million to $500 million.

Now as you've already heard, we have a number of projects we're working on. We believe that ecommerce and digital investments could yield strong returns as many require very low investment dollars compared to brick and mortar. It's still very early though in our probability process, that is the reason that we have such a wide range right now for next year for ecommerce and digital CapEx spend.

It's important to note these numbers do not include acquisitions, and they're based on how we see the landscape today.

These numbers may change during the year as we react to strategic opportunities, but we commit to come back and update you if these numbers change significantly. Now, if we take a look at what those reductions in brick and mortar investments mean per square footage, the US will moderate growth compared to recent years as they refine their large and small store formats, with the focus on really how to better serve customers.

Now, remember however we are celebrating our commerce investments. Sam's will also slowdown to allow them to focus on merchandise, membership and digital capabilities.

We would expect international to tick up a bit in fiscal year '16, but not to the levels that you probably saw in some of the prior years. Now in summary for the total company, we would expect to see growth in the range of 26 million to 30 million square feet.

Now as we've shown in the past, we remain committed to a good dividend for our shareholders. I can't tell you if the dividend will be going forward, but I'd like to point t our history of increasing dividends every year for the past 41 years, and over the last five years alone, we've returned $25 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends.

We also have a good history of share repurchases, which we fund with our excess cash. In fact over the last five years, we've returned over $40 billion in the form of share repurchases.

We are committed to returning all excess cash back to shareholders.

So, let me conclude with a few takeaways. Our customers' needs are evolving and we will continue to invest so that, you know, we will serve them when, where, and how they want to be served.

We're focused on the key pillars of our customer proposition -- price, assortment, access and experience. We will continue to invest in all four of these pillars.

We have a balanced investment approach which will allow us to see growth opportunities in both the physical and digital landscapes. We will be -- we will make thoughtful and disciplined investments to the business, adapting our strategy based on our customer's trends and acceptance.

And finally, we believe our investment strategy and execution will set us up to continue to serve our customer the way they want to be served and deliver strong shareholder returns for today and for tomorrow.

So to wrap up, thank you again for being here today. I know you travelled a long way or if you're on the Web, guys thank you for joining us, we really do appreciate your interest in Wal-Mart.

So, Carol, at this time, I'll take questions.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Charles while you were presenting, the press release crossed the wire and that press release polled together the capital dollars and a lot of the other details that you heard some of the information this morning. But when Charles pulled that together, the press release cross the wire for those of you on the webcast.

For those of you here, we've just been handing out copies of that so now you do have all the financial picture in one place. And with that, Charles we'll take the first question from Robert Ohmes.

ROBERT OHMES, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICAMERRILL LYNCH: Hey, Charles. This would probably be a broader question also when the rest of the team comes up, but I was hoping that you could talk about cannibalization of Supercenters. So, cannibalization from neighborhood markets and whether that's factored into these numbers that you're giving us today, cannibalization from future ecommerce, you know, Wal-Mart.com and sort of how much of that in, you know, I would imagine you have a lot insights into cannibalization, how much of this changes, you know, anticipating that a lot of the new growth in neighborhood markets and ecommerce is going to be cannibalizing Supercenters?

CHARLES HOLLEY: Yes, I can answer the overall.

The 2% to 4% doesn't -- it does have any cannibalization is going to be in there. So that's already been anticipated. I don't know of anybody from dot.com or Greg's team wants to address cannibalization of how you look at some of the things we're doing.

Is Neil around here?

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Claire, can you get a mike to Neil first?

NEIL ASHE: Yes. Our simple view of cannibalization is that we want to be there for our customers wherever they are and we want to be the person who sells them whatever they want to buy.

And so if they'd like to buy more as I said earlier, then they are currently buying at Supercenter we're going to sell it to them. We'd rather be -- if there's any cannibalization we want to be to ourselves.

ROBERT OHMES: And in terms of the store, you know, there's 250 out of the 500 Supercenters and is there anticipation or potential, you know, Supercenter store closing program over the next several years?

CHARLES HOLLEY: I don't think we have anything planned today on that, but as you know, we will continually periodically globally, we will look at underperforming stores and either -- what do we have to do to make that store successful or we think that it's -- there's not a good cost return for the shareholder, we may shut it down like we did last year, but there's nothing today that we have on plan to do that.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay. We'll go Simeon and then next to Simeon we'll go to Bob.

SIMEON GUTMAN: Thanks. Simeon Gutman, Morgan Stanley.

So we heard a lot about gas prices benefit. If we're surprised in the fourth quarter the customer gets a little stronger, how do you think about flow through, does it -- is it drop to the bottom line or is it are you going to reinvest back in the business? And I have one follow-up.

CHARLES HOLLEY: I think we've always had a view of balance between the customer, our price gaps, and our shareholder. So, I don't think that we've ever just said, everything's going to go to the customer, everything's going to the bottom line. It just depends, actually depends on what your price gap is with the category and how competitive you think you are.

SIMEON GUTMAN: And just the follow-up, a clarification on the sales guidance. This is guidance, I think you had given earlier in the year that hadn't been revised, but I think it'd come in a little choppy, so is this a commentary on the back half or is this just catching up to how the year was flowing out?

CHARLES HOLLEY: How the year was flowing out. On the guidance I gave for fiscal year '15, we're trying to give you some updated guidance.

SIMEON GUTMAN: Thank you.

BOB DRBUL: Hey Charles, just a question on as you look at the CapEx, I think earlier Greg has said, he was going to do the diagnostic, we would hear beginning of next year, is the CapEx in the store growth, could there be an adjustment, think a major adjustment beginning of next year based on what Greg comes up with over the next few months, and how do we think about that?

CHARLES HOLLEY: I think there could be as any year we've had, when we had one last year, you know, you could have an adjustment Bob, you say a significant or a material adjustment. The farther -- the closer you get to next year, the harder that is to do because of the run time.

Will there be some tweaks here and there? Absolutely. We have that every year. If it gets to be significant, you know, we're committed to come back to you and let you know that.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay. Greg, and then we'll go to Richard, Michael upfront after Greg.

GREG MELICH: Hi. Thanks Charles. You've talked about improving working capitals a way to really drive strong free cash flow, you know, higher. As you do that, is that going to be more on inventory returns or in terms of payables? Where would you expect that?

CHARLES HOLLEY: The very first priority would be inventory returns.

GREG MELICH: But you think there's some room as well on the payable side or not really that's not the focus?

CHARLES HOLLEY: You know, that's -- that'll certainly be within the how we look at it, but I'll be honest, the very first priority is how well and how efficient the supply chain is when we turn our inventory. But we certainly want to look at our payables terms as we would do all the time.

GREG MELICH: And then just a quick follow-up. You said keeping a strong balance sheet, could you help us understand how you actually define that, debt to EBITDA or debt to capital or ...

CHARLES HOLLEY: You know, it's the -- a double A rating and if you go to Standard & Poor's and Moody's as you know on their metrics, that they would use, they differ a little bit on it, but there's many metrics and so I'd have to refer you to all their literature on how they look at double A because they're both a little different.

But we watch both of those and work with both of those credit rating agencies because we've been very committed as you know to double A credit rating.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: And Michael will come up to Richard.

RICHARD CATHCART, ANALYST, HSBC: Thanks, Richard Cathcart from HSBC. Just a quick question on the square footage growth in the international, you're saying 10 million to 13 million for the next year, can you give us a bit more color on which markets you expect to kind of overweight and underweight within that?

CHARLES HOLLEY: Maybe somebody from international.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Yes, sure I mean got to remember net to gross numbers, so we have some [close] in our history. But you say from the strategy in the portfolio we're looking at, but as we're confident that we build a solid base in particularly Brazil, China, and to a lesser extent Mexico, we'd expect to see those markets that we looked with the right formats and the right job orders down. So, the combination of those markets that are in the solid base and the work we've done on golden principles to make sure they're very clearly, I think we'll get good returns, those are good things that got us.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: And Michael we'll go behind you to Matt.

MATTHEW FASSLER: Thanks a lot, Matthew Fassler from Goldman Sachs. Two quick ones. First of all, for the US contextualizing the guidance on footage growth which is down about 25% year on year versus the CapEx number which is down I think substantially last year on year. Secondly, if you could just contextualize the year-to-date buybacks which has been below the prior run rate, you know, relative to the long terms capital allocation color you give us today.

Thank you.

CHARLES HOLLEY: Yes. If I got your first question, you're asking, there's a little bit of a mismatch when you look at the CapEx and the square footage. There always is because there's timing differences. You're having a thin CapEx this year for storage that are going to open next year, and so, there's always going to be a mismatch in that.

The second thing, your second questions was buybacks.

MATTHEW FASSLER: Buybacks.

CHARLES HOLLEY: You've got to remember there was $1.5 billion of our excess cash for use to acquire the remaining minority interest in [July], and that definitely impacted buybacks, and it's something that we disclosed back when that happened.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay, we'll take one from Scott and then we'll go back this side to Chris.

SCOTT MUSHKIN: Thanks. It's Scott Mushkin from Wolfe Research.

So, getting the inventory question, I think you guys are reviewing your inventory. I wonder -- is there any chance that we got an inventory write down given the levels are way up and I know there's some review going on or is that not possible?

And then the second question I have is on guidance. I know you said you updated the sales guidance, seems like it's coming in low, should we put our minds this year to the low end of the current EPS guidance as well and when we look at '16, shall we base it off kind of a lower thought on '15 where I think ...

CHARLES HOLLEY: Yes.

SCOTT MUSHKIN: ... you said flat ...

CHARLES HOLLEY: Yes.

SCOTT MUSHKIN: ... if I'm not mistaken on operating.

CHARLES HOLLEY: Yes. On -- first of all, the first question on inventory, we don't believe that there's any big major inventory issue. We just think we have to be more -- much more efficient how we turn the inventory.

The second one on the guidance, first of all we're not giving out revised guidance -- dependent of guidance on EPS, but we have a lot of the year to go. The fourth quarter is huge for all retailers including Wal-Mart and so that'll make a big difference on what EPS is.

So I wouldn't read necessarily anything right now and to the EPS with the sales guidance.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay. We'll go to Chris and this will be our last question for you Charles.

CHRISTOPHER HORVERS: Do you have a -- Chris Horvers, JP Morgan -- do you have a stated dividend payout ratio and if the answer is no, how were you thinking about funding next year's the working capital and the dividend is really the source of funds for the dividing growth in 2015?

CHARLES HOLLEY: We don't have a stated payout ratio. You can look historically and you could probably see a pattern to some, but there's not a stated one. We look at this every year with the board and depending on what the circumstances are, there has been no decision on what the dividend or how it's going to look next year, that's why I said I couldn't forecast it for you, but I do know we're very proud of the 41 years of having a dividend increase every year.

presentation

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay. And now, we'd like to transition to our last session ...

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Yes.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: ... which is we call Doug back up and at this point do you want the rest of the team -- and the rest of the EC, the entire leadership team, please come up.

DOUGLAS MCMILLON: I decided that just about anything I could say at this point would be redundant, so I'm not going to take the time to go back through some of the major points, I'll ask the team to come on up so that we could get straight into your questions.

I will say that I hope through the course of today, that you appreciate the level of talent that we have within the company. I'm excited to work with this team, we've got great experience and great perspectives and really excited about where we're headed.

I do feel like that the customer has spoken and positioning the company for the future as we're improving what we do today is something that is necessary and also at the same time, really exciting.

So with that, we'll open it up to your questions.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: We have about 30 minutes now for this last Q&A session, and we'll start over here, Claire on this side.

Can't see with the light who that is.

MICHAEL LASSER: Hi, it's Michael Lasser from UBS. Doug, Wal-Mart's a big company and the world as was mentioned many times today is changing very rapidly, so how do you think about the balance between having an expansive portfolio of different businesses and the need to change? Because as big companies, it's hard to change quickly when you're so large.

DOUGLAS MCMILLON: Yes. We -- and we've grown the company by adding things. One of the biggest challenges that we've had as a team as we worked our strategy this year is figuring out what to stop doing and what not to do, so that we can stay focused.

I think you've already seen us do some more minor things like Dave sold the restaurant business in Mexico, there are other parts of our business that we have actually intended to kind of prune to stay focused on the core aspects of retailing, both brick and mortar and ecommerce, so that we can move with speed and stay focused on those things.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay. Greg? Claire will go to Greg in the middle.

GREG MELICH: All right, thanks. Greg Melich of ISI.

Look, I guess having heard this all day today, I kind of one sort of big question which is, we know we're investing for growth, we're doing less bit in CapEx, but it sounds like we're doing more of it in the P&L.

So what is the time horizon where whatever margin investments needed to get a top on response, what's the tolerance for that? Is that -- you would expect to see a response in a quarter two? I mean it look like from the -- Neil's presentation, Charles about the loss in dotcom would peak next year and then you'd start to see less loss after that.

Just give me a flavor of your tolerance in the board for the timing and then sort of the lag one should expect to get that return?

NEIL ASHE: Yes. We have the tolerance to think long term and to be patient with it. I think the two big areas that drive the number and I invite Greg or anyone else to chime in here too, are the ecommerce number and you just called out what we showed today in terms of timing, and the other one is Wal-Mart US.

And as you could hear from Greg today, he's got a number of variables, we've got a number of variables to work with. And as we had launched and have had all these conversations today, a number of you've asked about price, what should the wage investment be in terms of hours and how do we think about all of those variables and how they come together.

And in my opinion, what we need to do is to give Greg a little bit of time to think about those different levels of investment by area and it'll be a combination of things. In addition to that, the urgent agenda items that he called out to help pay for some of it, that we will work through in the coming months.

With a spacing holiday and Christmas right now, we're not going to make a lot of big changes at store level, we want to keep everyone focused, so you can imagine what the timeline will look like as we work through next year and make some of the foundational changes that we need to make within the Wal-Mart US number, but those were the two big ones, ecommerce and Wal-Mart US.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay. We'll go -- is that Mary?

MARION CASPER, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Hi, Marion Casper, Wells Fargo. Two quick questions. One, you talked about savings picture and the penetration so far is about 3%, what are you seeing in the test markets that went early and kind of -- is there an ultimate goal for that?

NEIL ASHE: Good question. I don't know the answer to that one. We may have to get Steven to grab a microphone.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I don't see him there, so you want to take it or you want me to take it?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: The as I mentioned in my remarks and Duncan and his, that the acceptance has been significantly higher than we thought, and the reaction of customers already in the full international rollout has been beyond what it was in the test markets.

So, we really feel like we found something that's hit a chord with customers and so we would expect that to continue to arise.

MARION CASPER: Okay ...

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Is there anything you want to ..

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Does it make sense that -- well -- was it that -- you managed.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: He was more specific and said, trips and spend were up with the new savings catcher users. I was trying to be up tuned but that the ...

MARION CASPER: Okay. Then one quick follow-up is, last year tethering was kind of a big topic and this year we mentioned it's going away, can you tell us maybe why it's going away, what you learned and what does that mean kind of going forward for different tests?

GREG FORAN: Yes, maybe I'll just briefly cover that. So, Judith please jump in if I don't get it.

So, look it was a group of products where we were supplying both products from a larger Supercenter to a smaller store, something we really calling express. Didn't make a lot of sense to do that. Financially, it didn't make a lot of sense so we put a stop on that and that product I think now goes straight to the store through the distribution center.

JUDITH MCKENNA: It does. Anything I'd add to that Greg is that it also increased the operational complexity for Supercenter, which you could see when you're in the backroom for that and that's not simply we want to do at that time. We want to make operation as simple as possible.

And it's part of this piloting with purpose which is sometimes we have to learn to sail back, take the learnings from that and move on to the next thing that we need to progress with.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I'm glad we tried and I think it was smart to try it and we learned something and it didn't cost very much. And from an environmental point of view, I think for all of us it's important that we be willing to fail and give things a try. We're in a new environment that moves quickly and I think those things should be celebrated.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay. We'll go Michael to Meredith, and then I will go to Simeon, Claire.

Meredith.

MEREDITH ADLER: At a meeting that you were having, the New York Stock Exchange this summer Doug, you mentioned that any Supercenter bigger than 150,000 square feet was too big. You might have meant new openings, but I'm not sure whether that was what you meant.

And if you, you clearly the average size if 178,000 square feet, what do you do, is there some -- is there anybody in the organization, any group looking at how to use what might be considered excess space more effectively?

GREG FORAN: Yes, I don't know that we have excess space that may. Now and the way that I think about it is primarily related to our new units and over the years we've grown our prototype to a larger size, I think we may have peaked out in the US at 220, I don't know where we peaked out Dave in Canada, but you think about this a lot, you can chime in here too.

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: As time goes on, I think rightsizing the Supercenter and in some ways reimagining what it does and what it looks like is an important part of the work that we need to accomplish, and that'll also inform what we think our current fleet ought to be, but we need to start out by looking at what we believe the stock up trip for the future looks like and engineer for that.

GREG FORAN: Yes, just maybe a couple of things to that. We've been gradually looking at sizes over the past five to six years actually Doug, so there is a bit by market but the Canadian business would've been at 200,000 five years ago, the biggest it built now is about 130. I think the US is slightly less reduction but it's reduced to single amount.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Yes.

GREG FORAN: And we're very focused now across a number of markets, collaborating very closely with the US about what we do with the space we have. And there's a multitude of options that we can do with that space, there's plenty of things that we don't sell yet, there's plenty of offers particularly the integration of physical and digital, having some space is very helpful in terms of aligning us to store pick operations and the cost of collection operations in our store.

The beauty of that is it allows us to extend the assortment to our customers and what we see and I think Neil mentioned this is when we see customers come and collect to the store, around 40% of those customers will go on the shop store as well, so it brings incremental traffic too.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay, Claire we'll go to Simeon and then Michael back to Bob Summers.

SIMEON GUTMAN: Thanks. So coming from a conversation we had lunch, the Wal-Mart as a company appears channel agnostic to the customer, so the customer can go online, shop anyway they like, and internally the message is pretty clear, externally the message is pretty consistent, but the side we don't see is internally the structure, the systems, how cost are being allocated, how credit is being attributed, so can you tell us where on that journey is the company ...

DOUGLAS MCMILLON: Yes, that's the hard part. Simeon, you're very insightful with your question.

We could talk to you about it all day. Ross I'm going to ask you to comment on this one would we do we? Figuring that out, I think is the key to success. There are lots of books written on the subject. We talked quite a bit about Clayton Christensen's book, The Innovator's Dilemma and how you grow something that's new and don't let the existing business choke it off or kill it.

We talked Neil phases at one point, the space where no one wanted to have anything to do with the new business, and then the phase where people love it so much they want to hug it to death. There is a dynamic there and these ways of working need to be sorted out.

I think Susan you should chime in here too. It is a huge issue and we'll all talk about that a little bit.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: One thing I can tell you is that our associates even at store and club level, they stop us when we're touring and saying, what's going on with the dotcom business, because they want it to grow, they're right in front of the customer, and they know what the customer wants as well, so they're looking forward to the growth that we can get.

We're also in certain sectors passing the benefit down into our clubs and stores. Right now it's at stores and later on in clubs.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Susan.

SUSAN CHAMBERS, EVP - GLOBAL PEOPLE, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Well the ways of working is one of the things that's most exciting for us to think about, to talk about, and eventually to do, how do you continue to help the organization feel like one for all and all for one and yet be even more comfortable in the specific role that you play in that, so a lot of the work that we're doing right now is to get role clarity for every individual in the organization, so it's clear by segment or function what you do to contribute to this relationship with the customer, not always defined by the relationships we had in the past, but knowing where you play into the bigger enterprise.

And when we get that right, you'll know it, you'll see it, you'll feel it, but we're all in this together and that's we were approaching it. Compensation will be a part of it and certainly our performance measures as well as it relates to the customer.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Three points, transparent, communication is a key, learning to appreciate the process of change management and the thoughtfulness that's required to navigate this thing internally.

Neil?

NEIL ASHE: Yes, one thing the, you know, this is -- you asked a question at all of Wal-Mart and I'll answer it just for global ecommerce which is, any organization what I say to our folks, any organization that involves more than one person, you've got to figure out how to work together.

So, for all of us who are married you know that, you know, I for one don't get to make every decision in my family and so we get comfortable with that, we figure out what to do, and so Dave, (Ross), Greg and I and all of us together spend a lot of time working through making sure we understand why we're making the decisions that we're making so that if Dave's making a decision, it's the same that I would make and if I make a decision it's the same that Dave would make.

That's really important for the transparency for the organization because it makes it a lot easier for them to follow along and make good choices as well. Greg's, you know, been here for several months now and his impact on the organization is obvious already, and so we'll do even more of that and it's exciting, it's why we're all here, it's what worth doing.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Doug, I'll just add that, you know, being around a long time, I think it actually makes us stronger. You know, when Neil and the Legacy systems work together. It's about him bringing the speed and the innovation and us bringing the scale.

And if you think about it, really need long term is we need both. And so it's making us stronger as we work broader together across these disciplines.

DOUGLAS MCMILLON: I mentioned this morning that we went after strategy in enterprise level and did it differently this year. And one of the benefits of that is that we all started with the same information internally and externally and we work through that together and had a lot of discussion and debate, a lot of hours invested this year to get more alignment and become like minded about what we believe about the customer and informs the decisions that we made and is ultimately shaping the capital allocation and the shape of the income statement.

I didn't fully introduce everybody. We had your picture up earlier. Rollin, tell everybody what you're responsible for real quickly.

ROLLIN FORD, CAO, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Rollin Ford, Chief Administrative Officer of the company.

DOUGLAS MCMILLON: And Susan?

SUSAN CHAMBERS: Susan Chambers, all people, all the time.

DOUGLAS MCMILLON: Dan and Jeff?

DAN BARTLETT, EVP - CORPORATE AFFAIRS, WAL-MART STORES, INC.: Corporate Affairs of Communications Government -- Global Government Relation, Sustainability Foundation, so live their agenda.

JEFF GEARHART: Jeff Gearhart, Global Governance which is legal compliance, FX and global security.

DOUGLAS MCMILLON: And Rollin what does a CIO do? What are you actually responsible for?

ROLLIN FORD: I serve all these folks up here on the stage. We have technology, your traditional ISD technology, engineering, sourcing, customer insights, those administrative areas of the company.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay, it seems Bob's question was answered I guess in the last go around. We'll go to Paul.

PAUL TRUSSELL: Paul Trussell, Deutsche Bank. Just a question on expenses and ability to leverage on brick and mortar. Charles I know you mentioned that operating income for next year will be flat to slightly down due to the ecommerce investments. And you also mentioned that negative merchandise mix will have operating income grow slower than sales when we look at brick and mortar.

But just to be clear, do we expect leverage in brick and mortar as we think about the business over the next few years? And then second, if we can just dig a little bit deeper Greg into neighborhood markets and the tests that are going on and what we are looking for in order to be able to accelerate that growth, whether we're testing outdoors without gas stations or without pharmacy, to what extent are we re-assorting the mix, some color and details there would be helpful.

CHARLES HOLLEY: Let's answer the leverage question by segment. Dave you go first and we'll just go down the line with four of you.

GREG FORAN: Yes, I think it'll be a balance. Certainly a lot depends on where sales end up over the next couple of years. Sales is the biggest driver of EDLC, and where we're seeing a lot of depressed economies and therefore sales growth and cost growth in line it makes it harder to leverage.

I think the pace of our innovation and the long structure redesigns we're putting in, I'm very optimistic about we got some good initiatives and I think there's a lot of efficiency we can take out of our business.

Third part of the equation then is what we choose to reinvest either in price positioning, we got some gaps we want to improve in some of our markets and in some of the new access mechanisms to customers. So it'll be a balancing act.

ROSALIND BREWER: Well, Sam just let me mention that our biggest opportunity is to begin to lift the top line so we can get some of our absorption that needs to happen. We will invest as we mentioned earlier. The base business a year ago we took -- we mentioned this in our earnings, we took just over $100 million out, so we feel that we've got a good cost basis right now, we've got to move the top line for Sam's.

GREG FORAN: For Wal-Mart US, as I mentioned, you know, we are sort of in the midst of a lot of the super moment. Our key is to get that top line moving along. If we do that, then we've got a great opportunity to create leverage.

Margin I think as a lot of the team had mentioned, will be a little bit of a challenge for us simply by mix. So as we sell more ecom and as we do more neighborhood markets, that's going to put some pressure on us in terms of the mix.

And then our ability to reengineer what we do in the store that's work in progress at the moment.

CHARLES HOLLEY: And Wal-Mart US in particular, my focus is not on leverage. I think we've got to make sure that we make investments necessary in wages, in other areas to get it right, that'll enable us to be successful over time.

GREG FORAN: Turning to neighborhood markets, first thing I would say is I actually think getting 180 to 200 of these out and doing them well is a pretty good number in anyone's book. So, that would be the first comment that I'd make.

Clearly, the business operates reasonably well at the moment, it's getting some pretty good comps and we know that pharmacy, Judith is absolutely critical in terms of the mix of that business. But, you know, as we walk it, and as I mentioned before, there's always opportunities, and you know what I can go doing business anywhere in the world and walk up and down the aisles, and see opportunities and -- so the ones that stick out to us is we think we need to be a bit more around fresh, it's not to say that it's broken, but it's how do you take it from here to here.

There's always opportunities for assortments in the middle of the store, and some of those Judith covered when she was talking about even the smaller express stores, some of that relates to the neighborhood market.

I wouldn't say that we're really in a test phase, it's an ongoing continuous improvement, with neighborhood markets. We're not stopping anything, we're just getting on and as we look at each store design, we look at the modulars, we look at the adjacencies, we look at the space, you're just going to see continuous improvement occur in that format.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay. Bob?

BOB SUMMERS: I guess Doug, I had a question for you. Generally when you think about the environment that we're in from a retailing perspective, competitively, you know, there's some turmoil now Sears and K-Mart, Target's had a leadership transition so, when you think about it from that perspective, you think about gas prices and oil prices, you know, the employment situation, and Charles, you know, we just lowered the sales outlook, you know, tweaked it lower for this year, what do you think the biggest issues right now that you're facing are given some of these other factors that seem to be really in your favor going into the back half this year?

DOUGLAS MCMILLON: Bob it all comes down to the store experience, for this year especially. It's what we find in our stores and clubs. And as I mentioned earlier today, if we magically jump into a plane and saw 20 stores in the next hour, you would see room for improvement on all the things we've been talking about today.

So do I think there's an opportunity given the state of retail and gas prices and other things? Absolutely do. But one of the things that's so true about our business is you get what you earn and get what you deserve, and we're kind of getting what we deserve right now and we're going to take action to try and build some momentum and capture the opportunity that's in front of us.

It's there, and we can see it, but we've got to set-up our associates to win, and they need us to get some things done, so that they can.

DANIEL BINDER: I had a couple of questions, Dan Binder, Jefferies. First on brands and private label, I mean the clear message last year was this is a house of brands, just curious what you're seeing with the vendors that is got that private label conversation, sort of becoming a little more front and center this year?

And then our neighborhood markets, while growth that is similar to this year is still good. I think a lot of people in this room probably thought it might accelerate further, so I'm just curious what you're seeing with the ROI in the neighborhood market versus where it was a couple of years and the markets you've gone into recently changed the way you're thinking about that growth and do you think it'll accelerate once we get through this next year where you have time to evaluate it further?

DOUGLAS MCMILLON: Yes, on the brand issue, for us to show price leadership, brands are still going to be primary. But I don't know that it's in or a situation and they're mutually exclusive. And Greg's experience, Dave's experience in particular with private brands, give me some confidence that done the right way (and that flew), the percentage of space that we do allocate to private brands can be more productive.

And as those items improve and the other aspects of it improve, quality, et cetera, it can build some loyalty, it could be helpful over the longer term as assortments become more accessible through your mobile device, or however you're going to look at them, having a few items maybe more than a few that are truly special will mean something.

So, it doesn't mean that we don't want to drive a lot of volume with brands and that's the place we start still today and in the future.

I'm happy to comment on neighborhood markets a little bit too, and (Meg) you've taken a shot at it a couple of times, our neighborhood markets are good and we've been building them and confidence in their future and we still are, but there is an opportunity to change them up a little bit in terms of the in-store experience, fresh in particular, maybe add a few of our new ideas like pickup to them as we build them, so that as we ramp up and build even larger numbers there -- they incorporate all of our best thinking and our best capabilities.

So, it's interesting, we're building a couple of hundred and as Greg said, that's a lot, and we got to go get store managers, and we've got to have good real estate locations and we've got to open quality neighborhood markets.

So I still believe and I think the group would agree, we have a tremendous opportunity with that format. Overtime how it plays out in terms of how it interacts with Supercenters and the cannibalization issue that Robbie raised earlier with clubs, with ecommerce, pickup points, all of that needs to be understood in a way that our capital is optimized.

So you could think of a market, and maybe it'd be helpful to think of a US market, we've got a lot of test going on in Denver, the way that we might start over in Denver if we didn't have any locations might be different from a capital allocation point of view than the way we will do it because we already have a lot of units in capital in Denver.

So, part of the issue is, how do neighborhood markets fit into the total and the other part of the issue is we just think we've got some ideas to make them even better. So the 200 we open will be good, the ones we have are good, we'll learn how to operate them even better and once we open in the future, it may have a few tweaks that cause them to have an even better return.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Mike?

MIKE MANTONI, ANALYST, ISI: Thanks. [Mike Mantoni] with ISI. The sales guidance that you all gave before us seems to imply a comp of around 1% to 2% range, versus what's been kind of flattish globally and I'm wondering if we went by country or by region, if you could just give us a couple of examples of initiatives how the comp accelerates from 0 to a one plus run rate, and also on the traffic side, can we get store traffic X ecommerce and m commerce to be flat or positive?

DOUGLAS MCMILLON: Dave you want to start?

DAVID CHEESEWRIGHT: Yes, sure. No, we wouldn't give specific details about commerce by region, but if you talk to some of the countries, so we've seen an improving frame then we have to strip out a lot of noise, so I like to look at a 12 month moving average and through the first quarter and I think we'll see going forward, we'll see the improve over a period of time after a number of quarters of decline.

And a lot of that is delivering the basics better, so particularly strong performance is in Brazil, where we've done a lot of work on individual assortments, so I need to getting specifics. We did some great work with Nielsen on category development, we benchmarked against all the competition to look at where we thought we had assortment gaps and we added some of that assortment back in customers clearly light bulb we're doing in this sort of commerce coming through there.

In a number of other countries, that's driven by incremental gains on price and we've been very thoughtful about how we do it but around the globe we're seeing our price gaps grow gradually as we take the product to the investments and put them in place.

And so I think you've seen the mix of that portfolio, as we start to move back capital investment towards the more high growth markets, as we start to implement those global principles so that our new stores are more productive, those are the reasons that we'll start to see our comps creep up a bit.

ROSALIND BREWER: So for Sam's the work we were doing around some category development is what's most helpful to our comp improvement. Categories like our fresh and our work that we're doing with organics is really going to make a difference and some of the work that Charles and his team did last year around consolidating and reducing the number of private brands we did have in our club, we went from probably more than 8 to 10 brands, down to two brands right now in the private label area.

And for us, just to mention on the private label piece, we do believe in national brands, we will when there's innovation required, really bring in something unique and put it in our private brand strategy in a very narrow focus within those two brands. That brings us category growth.

Also, category growth in produce and our fresh and frozen areas, those are large categories for us and they'll move our comps for us in the next year and that's where our focus is right now is that really good category performance.

For us our clubs operationally are pretty strong. Don and the team has done a ton of work to get the efficiencies out of the club and then get the right powers against the areas that we're growing and moving in, and then this layout that we have that's coming out now with our new clubs opening, really facilitates all the category work that we're doing, and those two in combination, will lift our comps.

GREG FORAN: In terms of Wal-Mart US, I think the words we'd use would be cautiously optimistic. And you know, I guess there'd be four things that I would say on behalf of my team, one would be, log in to the first would be interesting as we cycle snap. Secondly, my being here a short period of time, but I get a sense of the prices of gas as a relationship to how our shopper spends in our stores.

Third point would be I think we've got a great mix of products for the holiday. And our business is one point for talking about it, nine points to do, so let's execute the holiday really well. And then further out, it's to your point, let's become really good shopkeepers. Let's get down and do the basics really well.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: Okay. I think we are going to be able to wrap up on time, but before we wrap up, a couple of announcements especially for those of you here. First of all, the next time that you'll be hearing from Doug and the team will be on earnings. We do announce our third quarter earnings on November 13.

Yesterday, we sent out a release, along with the agenda that included our earnings calendar for next year. We are changing a couple of the dates in terms of the week or the day of the week.

Historically we've been coming out on one day that's shifting a little bit next year, so that is available on our website and certainly you can begin to note those dates on your calendar.

So again, the next time you'll hear from us will be Thursday, November 13, that is when we announce our third quarter earnings. For those of you leaving here and heading to the airport, we do have a number of buses available. They'll be leaving in -- starting in the next 15 to 20 minutes and there'll be people outside the doors to direct you to those buses, but they will be going straight to XNA.

And on behalf of all of us at Wal-Mart, we again thank you for coming to our meeting. We know that some of you have traveled very far including from Europe and places beyond the United States and we do appreciate the investment that you've made in terms of time and money and effort to come and visit with us and learn more about our business.

DOUGLAS MCMILLON: We sure do. Thank you all. Appreciate you coming.

CAROL SCHUMACHER: And this officially ends our webcast. Thank you very much.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

Document FNDW000020141018eaaf0035x

Opinion
LET THE PUBLIC SPEAK

987 words
13 October 2014
Press Democrat
SRPD
The Press Democrat
4B
English
© 2014 Press Democrat. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.      

Who Needs Libraries?

EDITOR: Who needs libraries, right? Everything you could possibly want to know is on the Internet. Just thumb-type your question into your iPhone and get an answer. Why invest in libraries when we've got Google? If only it were so easy.

You can Google "Measure M" and get 9.5 million results. Or you can ask a librarian, and she'll ask you a few clarifying questions and then give you a meaningful answer by searching through print and online resources, some of which definitely aren't available for free on your iPhone. There's a great quote by Neil Gaiman: "Google can bring you back 100,000 answers. A librarian can bring you back the right one."

Which brings me to my year-old son, Wade. He doesn't have an iPhone, and he's not online. But he has a library card. He attends Sonoma County Library story times and classes throughout the county (as do 62,000 other kids each year). Our family attended a charity event at Sonoma Raceway this past weekend, and Wade brought along his current favorite book, "ABC NASCAR." And on the ride home, he fell asleep to some classical music, borrowed from his local library. Who needs libraries? Wade does. We all do.

BRETT LEAR

Santa Rosa

====================

Attacks on Gore

EDITOR: To date, we in the 4th Supervisorial District have received two hit pieces on candidate James Gore, prepared by an independent organization and outlining his supposed insider dealings while in Washington. The clear intent was to bulldoze a clear path to victory for Deb Fudge. Meanwhile, the Fudge campaign has been conspicuously silent.

So, at the second debate between the two candidates, Gore addressed Fudge, asking why she hadn't distanced herself from such slanderous attacks. Her reply: "I didn't denounce them because I think there's some partial truth to them." Really? Then why did she not go on the record to speak directly of those "truths" and set the stage for a debate between the candidates rather than between Gore and her surrogates? Her position seems to be "my hands are clean, but I don't totally disagree." What a profile in courage.

I suppose she feels it is enough to stand on her record, but there are those who don't know her record as well as those who do and like only part of it. What are we to expect should she get into office: openness and honest stands, or opaqueness? As they say in the military: No guts, no glory.

PHILIP EDINGER

Cloverdale

====================

Appreciating a gift

EDITOR: Every year, at least one very generous dentist offers to buy Halloween candy from trick-or-treaters presumably so the candy won't hurt the children's teeth. I hope no one takes him up on his kind offer this year.

When you take your child trick-or-treating on Halloween, your neighbors are giving him or her a gift. It may be only a couple of 10-cent pieces of candy, but it is a gift nonetheless. Halloween is not a profit-making opportunity.

Yes, there are many valid reasons for restricting the amount of sugar your child eats, but there are also many ways to achieve that end. Your child can share the candy with someone else, or you can freeze it and parcel it out over the next several months. You could host a candy-free Halloween party or a party where there is just enough candy for the evening with none left for the following weeks.

Please teach your child to appreciate a gift, no matter how small.

CATHY BROOKS

Windsor

====================

Faith-based groups

EDITOR: All faith-based student groups are welcome on California State University campuses ("CSU's message: Those of faith need not apply," Paul Gullixson, Oct. 5). Hundreds of faith-based groups prosper among the thousands of student organizations on CSU campuses. These groups receive official recognition and associated benefits as long as they comply with state law.

California law prohibits publicly funded higher education institutions from discriminating or permitting discrimination on religious or other protected grounds. Some groups have chosen not to comply with legally mandated non-discrimination rules by requiring their leadership to sign a statement of faith. It would be unlawful for CSU to allow student organizations to discriminate in membership or leadership in this manner. CSU's non-discrimination policy only requires that all members be permitted to stand for election. Those voting for an organization's leaders remain entitled to consider all qualifications in deciding who to select.

Groups that choose to require a statement of faith for their leaders are in violation of state law and forfeit access to resources funded by the state and students. CSU respects that choice.

Either way, all faith-based student organizations remain welcome on CSU campuses. CSU will continue to work with them in an attempt to find a legal solution to their concerns.

FRAM VIRJEE

Executive vice chancellor and general counsel

California State University

====================

Stretching budgets

EDITOR: As a Sonoma State college student on a budget, I cannot tell you how excited I was to hear of the proposal to upgrade the Rohnert Park Wal-Mart to include groceries. Several times a week I find myself in this store shopping for odds and ends. The expansion to include a groceries section will seriously cut down my chore load and help my budget.

It's hard to find exactly what I need at one location, and this local Wal-Mart is going to be taking me one step closer to consolidating my time and money. These new additions to Wal-Mart will grant me some extra free time and wiggle room in my budget. I fully support the development and expansion to my local Wal-Mart and eagerly await its arrival.

PETER VANDER HORN

Rohnert Park

Document SRPD000020141027eaad00003



BC-AP News Digest 6 pm

3,414 words
7 October 2014
05:05 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2014.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

The world at 6 p.m. Times are EDT.

At the Nerve Center, Caleb Jones, Stephanie Siek and Vincent K. Willis can be reached at 800-845-8450 (ext. 1600). For photos, Alyssa Goodman (ext. 1900). For graphics and interactives, ext. 7636. Expanded AP content can be obtained from http://www.apexchange.com. For access to AP Exchange and other technical issues, contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.

ADDS:

UNITED NATIONS-NORTH KOREA

WAL-MART-HEALTH CARE

VATICAN-FAMILY

GAY MARRIAGE

EBOLA-DECONTAMINATION

NEW & DEVELOPING

— SENATE-DEBATE NIGHT — Senate candidates in five races across the country meet to debate ahead of a crucial midterm election that could alter control of the chamber. UPCOMING: 800 words by 9 p.m., photos.

— POLICE-WINDOW-STUN GUN— A cellphone video shows police in Indiana breaking a car window and using a stun gun on a passenger. SENT: 130 words. UPCOMING: 300 words by 6:30 p.m., video.

— AIRPLANES-BLACK BOXES — World's 2 largest commercial aircraft makers at odds over black boxes that eject from planes. SENT: 350 words.

— AUBURN SHOOTINGS — Alabama man convicted in shooting deaths of 2 ex-Auburn football players, 3rd victim. SENT: 370 words, photo.

TOP STORIES

SYRIA

MURSITPINAR, Turkey — Turkey's president warns that a strategic Syrian border town could fall to Islamic State militants, even as Kurdish forces battle to expel the extremists from their footholds on the outskirts. The U.S.-led coalition provides a small boost to the outgunned Kurds defending Kobani, hitting the Islamic State group's positions in a series of airstrikes. By Ryan Lucas and Lefteris Pitarakis. SENT: 1,100 words with new approach, photos, video.

— EUROPE-KURDISH PROTESTS — Kurdish protesters clash with police in Turkey and force their way into the European Parliament in Brussels, part of Europe-wide demonstrations against the Islamic State group's advance on a town on the Syrian-Turkish border. SENT: 600 words, photos.

— THE KURDS-Q&A — The Kurds of Syria and Iraq have become a major focal point in the war against the Islamic State group, with Kurdish populations in both countries coming under significant threat by the militants' lightning advance. SENT: 600 words.

— TV-CBS-SYRIA — CBS' Clarissa Ward slips into Syria to interview two Westerners turned jihadists, including an American from the Midwest. SENT: 450 words, photos.

— AP VIDEO TURKEY SYRIA WRAP VOX — The Islamic State group is about to capture the Syrian border town of Kobani, Turkey's president said, as outgunned Kurdish forces struggled to repel the extremists with limited aid from U.S.-led coalition airstrikes.

EBOLA-DOGS

Ebola's victims may soon include a dog. Officials in Madrid got a court order to euthanize the dog of a Spanish nursing assistant with Ebola because of the chance the animal could spread the disease. At least one major study suggests that dogs can be infected with the deadly virus without having symptoms. But whether or how likely they are to spread it to people is less clear. By AP Chief Medical Writer Marilynn Marchione. SENT: 120 words, photos. UPCOMING: 550 words by 6:30 p.m., photos.

UNITED NATIONS-NORTH KOREA

UNITED NATIONS — North Korea publicly acknowledges the existence of its labor camps for the first time, an admission that appears to come in response to a highly critical U.N. human rights report earlier this year. Diplomats for the reclusive, impoverished country also tell reporters that a top North Korea official has visited the headquarters of the European Union and expressed interest in dialogue, with discussions on human rights expected next year. By Cara Anna. SENT: 690 words, photo.

GAY MARRIAGE-RESISTANCE

WICHITA, Kan. — Officials in several conservative states, where the Supreme Court's refusal to hear appeals of gay marriage bans could clear the way for same-sex weddings, say they won't issue marriage licenses to gay couples until their hands are forced. Gay rights advocates say they're recruiting plaintiffs for new federal lawsuits to do just that. By Roxana Hegeman. UPCOMING: 700 words by 6:30 p.m., photos.

— GAY MARRIAGE — A federal appeals court follows the Supreme Court's lead and upholds gay marriage in Idaho and Nevada. SENT: 455 words. UPCOMING: 500 words, photos by 6 p.m.

— GAY MARRIAGE-STATES — The status of gay marriage in all 50 states. SENT: 1500 words, photos.

— GAY MARRIAGE-THE COURTS — Focus of gay marriage fight returns to lower courts after Supreme Court declines to step in. SENT: 420 words.

ISLAMIC STATE-AIR CAMPAIGN-ANALYSIS

BAGHDAD — After two months, the U.S.-led aerial campaign in Iraq has so far hardly dented the core of the Islamic State group's territory. The extremists' grip on major cities across Iraq and neighboring Syria remains unquestioned, and they have even succeeded in capturing new territory from an Iraqi army that still buckles in the face of militants. The campaign has brought some gains, with Kurdish fighters taking back towns on the fringes of the Islamic State group's territory. But those successes only underline a major weakness: Besides the Iraqi Kurds, there are no forces on the ground ready to capitalize on the airstrikes. AP News Analysis. By Vivian Salama. SENT: 1,400 words, photos, photos.

HEALTH OVERHAUL-WAIVERS

WASHINGTON — Millions of Americans may qualify for waivers from the most unpopular part of President Barack Obama's health care overhaul, but getting one could be an ordeal. Community groups are concerned about the convoluted process for exemptions from the law's penalty for remaining uninsured, though tax preparation companies see a business opportunity. By Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar. SENT: 850 words, photos.

NOBEL-PHYSICS

STOCKHOLM — An invention that promises to revolutionize the way the world lights its homes and offices, and already helps create the glowing screens of mobile phones, computers and many TVs, earns a Nobel Prize for two Japanese scientists and a Japanese-born American. By Malcolm Ritter and Karl Ritter. SENT: 915 words with new approach, photos.

MORE ON EBOLA

MED-EBOLA

MADRID — Health officials scramble to figure out how the Ebola outbreak in West Africa got past Europe's defenses, as three more people are placed in quarantine at a Madrid hospital where a Spanish nurse became infected with the deadly virus. The first case of Ebola being transmitted outside Africa, where a months-long outbreak has killed at least 3,500 people, has raised questions about how well prepared wealthier countries are to check the disease's spread. Medical officials in the U.S. say the scare has spurred hospitals to improve their infection control procedures. By Jorge Sainz and Barry Hatton. SENT: 960 words with new approach, photos.

— EBOLA-DECONTAMINATION — Garrett Eison's company has cleaned up hazardous spills and bloody crime scenes. But these experiences didn't shield Eison from the initial anxiety of cleaning up the Dallas apartment where an Ebola patient stayed. UPCOMING: 500 words by 7 p.m.

— EBOLA-NEWS GUIDE — A look at essential developments in the effort to contain the spread of Ebola, the deadly infectious disease that has killed thousands in West African and recently arrived in the United States and Europe. SENT: 500 words, photos.

— AP VIDEO SPAIN_EBOLA — Three more people were placed under quarantine for Ebola at Madrid hospital where a Spanish nurse became infected, the first case of the virus being transmitted outside of West Africa.

NATIONAL

LIFE EXPECTANCY, HFR

NEW YORK — Americans are living longer than ever before, according to a new government report that is mostly good news. U.S. life expectancy inched up again and death rates fell. Rates also dropped for most of the leading causes of death except for suicide. By Medical Writer Mike Stobbe. SENT: 450 words. HOLD FOR RELEASE UNTIL 12:01 A.M.

KANSAS-SENATE-ROBERTS' PATH

DODGE CITY, Kan. — Rural Kansas has been a steady provider of votes for conservative Midwestern Republicans like Pat Roberts. Now, the prairie is Roberts' best chance to save his Senate career. He must wring every friendly vote out of Kansas' 99 rural counties to survive a challenge from a suburban businessman running as an independent, who says the 78-year-old is out of touch. By Thomas Beaumont. SENT: 830 words, photos.

CASINOS-YOUNG GAMBLERS

LAS VEGAS — Casinos are trying to figure out how to lure younger gamblers to slot machines. The key, they agree, is more skill-based, social games. But casinos also have to keep happy the players who spend the most on slots - older female gamblers. And they must be careful not to run afoul of rules that specify slots must be games of chance. By Kimberly Pierceall. SENT: 650 words, photos.

WASHINGTON

SUPREME COURT-PRISON BEARD

WASHINGTON — Supreme Court justices appear united as they pick apart prison rules in Arkansas that allow full Afros and mustaches, but no beards in a case about a Muslim inmate's religious liberty. By Mark Sherman. SENT: 700 words, photos.

FAKE FACEBOOK

WASHINGTON — The Drug Enforcement Administration set up a fake Facebook account using photographs and other personal information it confiscated from a woman arrested in a cocaine case, to trick her friends into revealing incriminating drug secrets. The Justice Department initially defended the practice but now says it's reviewing whether the Facebook guise went too far. By Alicia A. Caldwell and Eric Tucker. SENT: 670 words, photos.

INTERNATIONAL

HONG KONG-PROTESTS-MURKY CHARACTERS

HONG KONG — In the Hong Kong protests, not all is as it seems. From the shadows of the city's mass street protests, murky characters have emerged. Allegations have spread among protesters, the local media and online that triad gangsters, paid demonstrators, police pretending to be protest leaders, and even a stuntman feigning suicidal tendencies have arrayed themselves against the students and the Occupy Central movement. Part of this is to do with rumors flying around in a continually changing situation, with no time for people to verify what they read or hear. But with the Chinese Communist Party in the background after taking control from Britain in 1997, Hong Kong citizens are ever ready to believe such claims of duplicity. By Louise Watt. SENT: 1,070 words, photos.

— HONG KONG-DEMOCRACY PROTESTS — Hong Kong protests thin out as territory's government agrees to talk with student leaders. SENT: 890 words, photos, video.

MOROCCO-RETHINKING POT-GOING LEGAL

KETTAMA, Morocco — In the rugged Rif mountains, Abdelkhalek Benabdallah strode among towering marijuana plants, checking the buds. Benabdallah says he openly grows the crop, while understanding the risk: "We are regularly subject to blackmail by the gendarmes," he said. Morocco's marijuana farmers live in a strange limbo in which the brilliant green fields are left alone, while the growers themselves face constant police harassment. A new draft law may bring some reprieve: It aims to legalize marijuana growing for medical and industrial uses, a radical idea for a Muslim nation that could alleviate poverty and social unrest. By Paul Schemm and Smail Bellaoualli. SENT: 1,500 words, photos. An abridged version of 720 words also has been sent.

SKOREA-DEFECTORS SEND MONEY

SEOUL, South Korea — The voice on the North Korean end of the line seemed too old to be Lee Seo Yeon's sister, but when they started talking about childhood memories, she knew. Their first talk in 16 years was an emotional moment, interrupted by a financial transaction: With help from go-betweens, Lee, a defector now in South Korea, transferred $1,880 to her sister, with the intermediaries getting a cut. Smuggled phones, combined with a resourceful underground network of brokers inside and outside North Korea, are allowing defectors not only to connect with long-lost relatives, but to send them desperately needed cash. By Hyung-jin Kim. SENT: 1,200 words, photos.

RELIGION

VATICAN-FAMILY

VATICAN CITY — Pope Francis, cardinals and bishops from around the world have gotten an unexpected lecture on the joys of sex, from a Catholic couple brought in to talk about what makes a marriage last. By Nicole Winfield. SENT: 740 words, photos.

SCIENCE

MED-WOMB TRANSPLANT BABY

GOTHENBURG, Sweden — The world's first baby born from a transplanted womb is soon to have company. Two more women who became pregnant after having womb transplants are due to deliver in the next few weeks — and that could be the start of a new wave of babies born this way, say the Swedish doctors who pioneered the technique. By Medical Writer Maria Cheng. SENT: 690 words, photos, video.

BUSINESS

WAL-MART-HEALTH CARE

NEW YORK — Wal-Mart Stores Inc. plans to eliminate health insurance coverage for some of its part-time U.S. employees in a move aimed at controlling rising health care costs of the nation's largest private employer. Wal-Mart tells The Associated Press that starting Jan. 1, it will no longer offer health insurance to employees who work less than an average of 30 hours a week. The move affects 30,000 employees, or about 5 percent of Wal-Mart's total part-time workforce, but comes after the company already had scaled back the number of part-time workers who were eligible for health insurance coverage since 2011. By AP Retail Writer Anne D'Innocenzio. SENT: 660 words, photos.

WINTER HEATING COSTS-RELIEF

NEW YORK — It won't cost as much to stay warm this winter — assuming the polar vortex that kept the nation shivering much of last winter doesn't return. Most residents will pay less simply because they won't have to crank up the heat so much, according to the Energy Department's annual prediction of winter heating costs. Customers who rely on heating oil and propane will likely see their fuel prices fall, too. But customers who rely on natural gas or electricity for heat — which together make up 88 percent of U.S. households — will likely see higher prices thanks in part to residual effects from last year's historic cold snap. By Jonathan Fahey. SENT: 230 words, photos. SENT: 700 words.

DIGITAL LIFE-A CLOSER LOOK-MAPPING APPS

You might be accustomed to typing in a street address or even the name of a landmark to get driving directions on a smartphone app. But if that's all you use it for, you're missing out. Mapping apps have grown much more sophisticated over the five years I've been using them. Some now offer options for walking, biking and public transit, too. A few work offline — when you don't have a cellular or Wi-Fi connection. Here's how you can make better use of mapping apps. By Anick Jesdanun. SENT: 800 words, photos.

SKOREA-EARNS-SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS

SEOUL, South Korea — The world's biggest smartphone maker is suffering a stunning financial decline in the face of intense competition from Apple Inc. and upstart Chinese brands. In a preview to earnings due out this month, Samsung Electronics Co. says its quarterly profit is estimated to have fallen to its lowest level in more than three years, dragged down by weak sales of its new Galaxy model. By Youkyung Lee. SENT: 600 words, photos.

ENTERTAINMENT

FILM-Q&A-BILL MURRAY

TORONTO - Sitting through the premiere of his latest film, the dramedy "St. Vincent," Bill Murray found himself unexpectedly moved. "I thought, 'Well I better not be crying when the lights come up. That will be bad for my image." At 64, Murray remains the unquestioned king of the deadpan. But in his first lead role in years, Murray tries his most technically challenging performance yet, one with a coarse Brooklyn accent and a debilitating stroke. By Film Writer Jake Coyle. SENT: 1,100 words, photos. Abridged version of 600 words.

GAMES-WORLD OF TANKS

LOS ANGELES — "Fury" is rolling into "World of Tanks." Before the World War II tank drama reaches theaters Oct. 17, gamers can make like Brad Pitt's character and steer a virtual rendition of the tank he commands in the film. It's the latest example of a likeminded movie and game aligning to hype each other, and it marks the first Hollywood pact for the popular online tank combat title. By Entertainment Writer Derrik J. Lang. SENT: 500 words, photos.

ALSO GETTING ATTENTION

— KASHMIR-BORDER VIOLENCE — Indian and Pakistani troops fire bullets and mortar shells across the border between Kashmir and Pakistan for a second day. SENT: 730 words, photos.

— SCHOOL THREATS — A rash of phone and email threats to schools around New England has authorities wondering if they're dealing with young pranksters or something more menacing. It also raises a thorny question: When does a threat justify the evacuation or temporary closure of a school? SENT: 570 words, photos.

— DRUG TRAFFICKING-CARTEL — An associate of one of the world's most notorious drug kingpins heads to trial in New Hampshire, charged with conspiring to distribute more than a ton of cocaine and other drugs for the Sinaloa cartel. SENT: 400 words.

— CAPTAIN COOK-ENDEAVOR — The founding ship of Australia, Captain Cook's Endeavour, sank in Newport Harbor centuries ago. An archaeologist has been working for years to locate the wreck, and now she's getting some help from the Australian government. SENT: 500 words.

— CAMPUS RAPE — The national champion Union College hockey team has agreed to challenge their 2,000-student campus to step in and stop any incidents or behaviors that look like they could lead to sexual assaults. SENT: 400 words.

— DISTRACTED DRIVING — Voice-activated smartphones, dashboard infotainment systems can distract drivers and require more concentration, not less. SENT: 800 words, photos.

— OBAMA — Obama headlines Democratic fundraisers this week, but doesn't campaign with Democratic candidates; that would give Republicans easy opportunities to saddle their opponents with the president's political baggage. SENT: 640 words, photos.

— HOUSE-NEW YORK — Can a conservative Jewish Republican find political happiness on New York's Long Island? GOP leaders are investing heavily in state Sen. Lee Zeldin's bid to topple six-term Democratic Rep. Tim Bishop. SENT: 600 words, photos.

— SENATE-MICHIGAN — Senate Republicans pull back spending on Michigan GOP candidate Terri Lynn Land's bid for the open seat, indicating the party is looking elsewhere for the six seats it needs to grab control of the Senate. SENT: 400 words, photos.

— GOVERNOR RACES-MICHELLE OBAMA — Michelle Obama campaigns in Chicago for Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn and in Wisconsin for Democratic gubernatorial candidate Mary Burke. SENT: 500 words with new approach, photos.

___

Online:

http://apexchange.com

A convoy    transporting a Spanish nurse who believed to have contracted the ebola virus from a 69-year-old Spanish priest leaves Alcorcon Hospital in Madrid, Spain, Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2014. The nurse who treated a missionary for the disease at a Madrid hospital tested positive for the virus, Spain's health minister said Monday. The female nurse was part of the medical team that treated the Spanish priest who died in a hospital last month after being flown back from Sierra Leone, where he was posted. (AP Photo/Andres Kudacki) | Pro-Russian rebels fire toward Ukrainian positions near to the airport in the town of Donetsk, eastern Ukraine Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2014.    Despite a cease-fire declared a month ago between the Ukrainian forces and pro-Russian rebels, the biggest city in eastern Ukraine remains embroiled in fighting . (AP Photo/Dmitry Lovetsky) | A pro-democracy student protester sleeps on an occupied roadway surrounding the government complex in Hong Kong, Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2014. Student-led protests for democratic reforms in Hong Kong continued to shrink Tuesday morning but a few hundred demonstrators remained camped out in the streets, vowing to keep up the pressure until the government responds to their demands. (AP Photo/Wally Santana) | Turkish riot police detain protesters as they use tear gas to disperse people who were protesting against Turkey's policy in Syria as fighting intensified between Syrian Kurds and the militants of Islamic State group in Kobani, Syria, in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2014. Kobani, also known as Ayn Arab and its surrounding areas have been under attack since mid-September, with militants capturing dozens of nearby Kurdish villages. (AP Photo/Burhan Ozbilici) | A man visits the Samsung Electronics Co.'s showroom in Seoul, South Korea, Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2014. Samsung Electronics Co. said Tuesday its third-quarter operating profit is estimated to have fallen to the lowest level in more than three years, as Galaxy handsets sales slow. (AP Photo/Ahn Young-joon)      

Document APRS000020141007eaa7002bf



BC-AP News Coverage Advisory 10:15

2,419 words
7 October 2014
09:11 AM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2014.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

Good morning! Here's a look at how AP's general news coverage is shaping up today. Some plans are subject to change; see the 2 p.m. News Digest for updates. You can find our contact info at the bottom of this advisory.

HIGHLIGHTING:

Among today's coverage highlights as we see them at 10:15 a.m. EDT:

-- SYRIA (sent; developing)

-- THE KURDS Q&A (upcoming)

-- EBOLA (sent; developing)

-- EBOLA PREPARATIONS (sent)

-- HEALTH OVERHAUL-WAIVERS (upcoming)

-- WAL-MART-HEALTH CARE (sent)

-- NOBEL-PHYSICS (sent; developing)

-- HONG KONG-PROTESTS-MURKY CHARACTERS (upcoming)

-- SUPREME COURT-MUSLIM BEARD (upcoming)

-- SCHOOL THREATS (upcoming)

-- HEATING COSTS (upcoming)

-- DISTRACTED DRIVING (sent)

-- CASINOS-YOUNG GAMBLERS (upcoming)

-- FILM-Q&A-BILL MURRAY (upcoming)

-- BOOSTER SEAT-OFFICER (sent)

PHOTOS: SYRIA (sent; developing);

VIDEO: SWEDEN_BABY (sent; with text and photos)

Here are details of those stories, plus others we have in the works for today and notable pieces that we sent in the past 10 hours (all times EDT):

WORLD

SYRIA - The Islamic State group is about to capture the Syrian border town of Kobani, Turkey's president said Tuesday, as outgunned Kurdish forces struggled to repel the extremists with limited aid from U.S.-led coalition airstrikes. SENT: 680 words, photos, video. UPCOMING: Developing.

THE KURDS Q&A - Spread across Iraq, Iran, Syria and Iran, the Kurds are probably the largest group in the Middle east without a country of their own. Now they are in a deadly battle with the Islamic State militants in two of those countries. A look at who they are. UPCOMNG: 500 words.

IRAQ ANALYSIS - Three months into the aerial campaign launched by the U.S. in Iraq, the Islamic State group continues to make modest gains in parts of the country where the Iraqi military is increasingly buckling as the militants adjust their tactics to the evolving battlefield. UPCOMING.

MOROCCO-RETHINKING POT-GOING LEGAL - Morocco, top hash provider, mulls legislation to break marijuana taboo and legalize growing. SENT: 1,500 words, photos. An abridged 700-word version also moved.

HONG KONG-DEMOCRACY PROTESTS - Hong Kong protests thin out as territory's government agrees to talk with student leaders. SENT: 920 words, photos.

HONG KONG-PROTESTS-MURKY CHARACTERS - In the chaos of mass street protests, murky characters come into play. Local media alleged that triad gangsters, paid demonstrators, police pretending to be protest leaders, and even a stuntman feigning suicidal tendencies arrayed themselves against the Occupy Central movement. UPCOMING: 900 words by noon, photos.

SKOREA-DEFECTORS SEND MONEY - Cellphones smuggled into N. Korea allow defectors to hear from families, and get them cash. SENT: 1,150 words, photos.

KOREAS-TENSION - Warships from the rival Koreas exchange warning shots after a North Korean ship briefly violated the disputed western sea boundary, a South Korean defense official says. SENT: 280 words, photos.

RUSSIA-PUTIN'S BIRTHDAY - Russian President Vladimir Putin is celebrating his 62nd birthday in the wilderness of Siberia as supporters from across Russia create tributes in his honor. SENT: 350 words, photos.

MALAYSIA-UIGHURS - Human rights groups urge Malaysia not to deport 155 ethnic Uighur migrants, including 76 children, back to China, fearing they could face persecution. SENT: 310 words.

MYANMAR-POLITICAL PRISONERS - The Myanmar government pardons 3,073 prisoners as part of an amnesty, a month before a summit of regional leaders convenes in the country. SENT: 470 words, photos.

KASHMIR-BORDER VIOLENCE - Indian and Pakistani troops fire bullets and mortar shells across the border between Kashmir and Pakistan for a second day. SENT: 130 words.

IRAN - President Hassan Rouhani calls for more academic freedom in Iran's universities, saying restrictions stifle innovation and breed sycophancy. SENT: 290 words.

CHINA-DENGUE OUTBREAK - The dengue virus kills six people and infects more than 21,000 in southern China's worst outbreak of the mosquito-transmitted disease in about two decades. SENT: 180 words.

MYANMAR-THAI HELICOPTER - Three people who were on board a Thai rescue helicopter that disappeared 10 days ago were safe Tuesday afternoon after walking "many miles" to reach a Myanmar village, a foundation searching for them said. SENT: 250 words.

EBOLA

EBOLA - The Spanish nurse infected with the Ebola virus changed the diaper for a priest infected with the virus and collected material room after he died, and some health care workers complain they didn't get sufficient training for caring for Ebola patients. People who came in contact with the patient and the nurse are placed under quarantine but have shown no signs of becoming ill. SENT: 900. UPCOMING: 900 words by 4 p.m., photos, video.

EBOLA-PREPARATIONS - Ebola has yet to infect a single person on U.S. soil. But health care providers are worried enough that they are taking a wide variety of precautions. SENT: 1,270 words, photos.

WASHINGTON

HEALTH OVERHAUL-WAIVERS - Millions of Americans may be eligible for waivers from the most unpopular part of Obama's health care overhaul. But claiming one could be such an ordeal that it creates more problems for the law and its supporters. UPCOMING: 800 words, photos, by 3 p.m.

SUPREME COURT-MUSLIM BEARD - The Supreme Court hears arguments on whether an Arkansas prison is violating the religious liberty of a Muslim prisoner by barring him from growing a half-inch beard. UPCOMING: Developing from 10 a.m. arguments, 600 words by 2 p.m.

OBAMA - Less than a month away from the midterm elections, Obama's campaign schedule is getting off to a late start. SENT: 640 words, photos.

BIDEN - As Biden seeks to fashion himself as a credible alternative to Hillary Rodham Clinton in the 2016 presidential race, his latest missteps have rekindled questions about his ability to serve as commander in chief. SENT: 850 words, photos.

POLITICS

KANSAS-SENATE-ROBERT'S PATH - The scrubby rangeland and table-top fields of western Kansas have been a fertile source of wheat and votes for conservative Midwestern Republicans like Bob Dole, and, for the past 18 years, Pat Roberts. Now, Roberts finds himself struggling and the prairie is both his best chance for saving his Senate career and the biggest reason he could lose it. UPCOMING: 800 words by 4 p.m., photos.

HOUSE-NEW YORK - Can a conservative Jewish Republican find political success on New York's Long Island? UPCOMING: 800 words by 4 p.m., photos.

HOUSE-NEW HAMPSHIRE - With Republicans widely expected to hold their U.S. House majority, the rekindling of the Shea-Porter-Guinta rivalry in New Hampshire is part of a national effort to pad that majority even more. SENT: 810 words, photo.

GOVERNOR-NEW MEXICO-SPANISH - Spanish-language debate for New Mexico governor candidates part of trend to woo Latino voters. SENT: 530 words, photos.

POLITICAL MONEY-SENATE - Senate Republicans' campaign arm says it raised record $15.5M in Sept., no word on savings. SENT: 250 words.

US

SCHOOL THREATS — A rash of phone and email threats to schools around New England has authorities wondering if they're dealing with young pranksters or something more menacing. It also raises a thorny question: When does a threat justify the evacuation or temporary closure of a school? UPCOMING: 400 words by 2 p.m., photo.

CASINOS-YOUNG GAMBLERS - Casinos are trying to figure out how to lure younger gamblers to slot machines. . UPCOMING: 550 words by 4 p.m., photos.

BOOSTER SEAT-OFFICER - Instead of ticket, Michigan officer buys booster seat for girl whose mother fell on hard times. SENT: 200 words. Seeking photo.

SAT SCORES - SAT scores for high school seniors remain about the same as earlier scores. SENT: 360 words

DRUG TRAFFICKING-CARTEL — An associate of one of the world's most notorious drug kingpins heads to trial in New Hampshire, charged with conspiring to distribute more than a ton of cocaine and other drugs for the Sinaloa cartel. UPCOMING: 400 words by 5 p.m.

CAMPUS RAPE — The national champion Union College hockey team has agreed to challenge their 2,000-student campus to step in and stop any incidents or behaviors that look like they could lead to sexual assaults. UPCOMING: 400 words by 4 p.m.

CHILD ABUSE-AUTISTIC DAUGHTER - Sentencing resumes Tuesday for a Michigan woman accused of trying to kill her autistic 14-year-old daughter and herself after the woman blogged about how hard it had been raising the girl. SENT: 130 words. UPCOMING: 400 words by 5 p.m., photos.

HEROIN-DAY CARE - A 4-year-old girl took hundreds of packets of heroin to her day care center and began passing it out, thinking it was candy, Delaware State Police said. SENT: 250 words.

BEAVERS TO RESCUE - In a heavily irrigated Washington valley where fish, crops and people often compete for water, biologists are turning to one of nature's best engineers to help restore streams and salmon habitat. . SENT: 690 words, photos.

GAY MARRIAGE

GAY MARRIAGE-POLITICS - The Supreme Court's decision to reject appeals from five states that sought to prohibit same-sex marriage reignited a debate inside the GOP who are weighing a possible White House bid for 2016. SENT: 840 words, photos.

- GAY MARRIAGE-THE COURTS - Gay marriage focus returns to lower courts. SENT: 390 words.

- GAY MARRIAGE-SOUTH - Same-sex marriage comes to the South for the first time; why this region was the last holdout. SENT: 700 words, photos.

- GAY MARRIAGE-STATES - Where same-sex marriage is legal after Supreme Court action, and where it's not. SENT: 1,300 words.

SCIENCE

NOBEL-PHYSICS - Isamu Akasaki, Hiroshi Amano, Shuji Nakamura win Nobel Prize in physics for LED lights. SENT: 590 words, photos.

COFFEE GENES - How much coffee do you drink every day? A huge study has identified genes that may influence that. SENT: 320 words, photo.

SPACE STATION - Two astronauts are taking a spacewalk 260 miles up. They're performing NASA's first routine maintenance outside the International Space Station in more than a year. SENT: 450 words. UPCOMING: Developing; walk expected to last until 3 p.m.

TECH

SILICON VALLEY UPHEAVAL - Smartphones, tablets and other gadgets are shaking up Silicon Valley's balance of power and splitting up businesses. SENT: 850 words, photo.

DIGITAL LIFE-A CLOSER LOOK-MAPPING APPS - Here's how you can make better use of mapping apps. UPCOMING: 800 words by 2 p.m., photos.

BUSINESS /ECONOMY

WINTER HEATING COST - It won't cost as much to stay warm this winter — assuming the polar vortex doesn't return. UPCOMING: 130 words at 10 a.m. when Energy Department forecast is released. 700 words by noon, photos.

WAL-MART-HEALTH CARE - Wal-Mart Stores Inc. plans to eliminate health insurance coverage for most of its part-time U.S. employees in a move aimed at controlling rising health care costs of the nation's largest private employer. SENT: 540 words.

SMALLBIZ-SMALL TALK - It's not just big businesses like JPMorgan Chase, Target and Home Depot that get hacked. Small companies suffer their fair share of intrusions into their computer systems, too. UPCOMING: 600 words, photos by 2 p.m.

RETAIL-HOLIDAY FORECAST - Americans are expected to spend at the highest rate in three years during what's traditionally the busiest shopping season of the year, according to the nation's largest retail industry trade group. SENT: 460 words.

STARBUCKS-COLLEGE TUITION — Starbucks says more than 1,000 of its workers have enrolled for an upcoming fall semester at Arizona State University to take advantage of a program that helps pay for their tuition. SENT: 480 words.

EUROPE-AMAZON-TAX PROBE - The European Union's competition authority is opening a formal investigation of Amazon's European corporate income tax practices. SENT: 130 words.

POP CULTURE/LIFESTYLES

DISTRACTED DRIVING - Two new studies have found that voice-activated smartphones and dashboard infotainment systems may be making the distracted-driving problem worse instead of better. SENT: 760 words, photos.

-DISTRACTED DRIVING-GLANCE: Ratings of voice-activated car infotainment systems. SENT: 280 words.

ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT

FILM-Q&A-BILL MURRAY - In his first lead role in years, Murray tries his most technically challenging performance yet, one with a coarse Brooklyn accent and a debilitating stroke. UPCOMING: 1,000 words by 1 p.m., photos.

TV-CBS-SYRIA - CBS' Clarissa Ward slips into Syria to interview two Westerners turned jihadists, including an American from the Midwest. UPCOMING: 450 words by 3 p.m., photos.

GAMES-WORLD OF TANKS - "Fury" is rolling into "World of Tanks." UPCOMING: 500 words by 2 p.m., photos.

TV-CNN-ROWE — Mike Rowe never expected his new travelogue series, "Somebody's Gotta Do It," to land on CNN. UPCOMING: 550 words by 2 p.m., photos.

TV-GIUDICES-ANDY COHEN - Not all was revealed in Bravo's joint interview with Teresa and Joe Giudice. SENT: 610 words, photos.

OBIT-SELDES - Marian Seldes, the Tony Award-winning star of "A Delicate Balance" who was a teacher of Kevin Kline and Robin Williams, a muse to playwright Edward Albee and a Guinness Book of World Records holder for most consecutive performances, died Monday at 86. SENT: 620 words, photos.

THEATER-COLUMBINE PLAY - A play about the Columbine High School massacre written from the perspective of the two teen shooters will make its world premiere in New York next month. UPCOMING: 400 words by 1 p.m., photos.

MUSIC-DOVE AWARDS - Hillsong United, Lecrae and Mandisa are up for artist of the year at the 45th annual Dove Awards on Tuesday night along with NEEDTOBREATHE, Casting Crowns and Switchfoot. UPCOMING: 200 words by 10:30 p.m.

ROCK FEST PARENT - Herewith some tips I picked up for parents thinking of sharing a concert experience with their kids. UPCOMING: 960 words by 3 p.m., photos.

SPORTS

MLB-RIGHT AT HOME - For baseball, local TV viewership and revenue stays strong even as it dips nationally. SENT: 790 words, photos.

FOOTBALL TEAM-INVESTIGATION - Officials have canceled the football season at a New Jersey high school amid allegations of harassment, intimidation and bullying. SENT: 130 words. UPCOMING: 250 words by 11 a.m., 400 words by 3 p.m.

HOW TO REACH US

At the Nerve Center, Karen Mahabir and Caleb Jones can be reached at 800-845-8450 (ext. 1600). For photos, Swayne Hall (ext. 1900). For graphics and interactives, ext. 7636. Expanded AP content can be obtained from http://www.apexchange.com. For access to AP Exchange and other technical issues, contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.

Document APRS000020141007eaa7004gv



America's oldest workers: Why we refuse to retire!

By Melanie Hicken CNN Money      
1,700 words
3 October 2014
11:08 AM
CNN Wire
CNNWR
English
Copyright 2014 Cable News Network. All Rights Reserved.      

(CNN) -- For these seniors, the best retirement is not to retire. From a 102-year-old Wal-Mart worker to an activist park ranger, these workers have stayed on the job well into their golden years.

The Wal-Mart worker

Name: Loren Wade

Age: 102

At 102 years old, Loren Wade is one of the oldest workers in the country.

For the past 30 years, he has worked at Wal-Mart's Winfield, Kansas store. Currently, he works 32 hours a week as an associate in the lawn and garden department, doing everything from stocking the shelves and running the cash register to helping customers pick out flowers for their garden.

"He's so good with customers," said store manager Tonya Villar. "They actually seek him out."

A former mail carrier, Wade gave retirement a try in the early 1980s but deemed it "pretty boring."

He and his wife of 67 years live mostly off his Social Security benefits and his small Postal Service pension, but he says the paychecks from Wal-Mart "come in handy, too." "I can buy things that I couldn't buy off of Social Security, like ice cream and to go out to eat once in a while," he said.

But it's not all work. He and his wife have visited almost every state in the U.S. and he played the saxophone and other instruments in a local band for nearly 80 years.

Wade says he plans to work as long as he can. Although he admits: "These 50 pound bags of dog food are getting pretty heavy," he said.

The park ranger

Name: Betty Reid Soskin

Age: 93

Betty Reid Soskin has been an office worker, a record store owner and a political staffer. But it wasn't until she was well into her 80s that she found her dream job.

Seven years ago, she became a park ranger at the Rosie the Riveter/World War II Home Front National Historical Park in Richmond, Calif. Three times a week, she shares with visitors what it was like to work in a segregated union hall during World War II -- how she never saw herself as a "Rosie" since black women weren't hired to do the same work as white women.

"It seems to me that all of the things I've done leading up to this period were in preparation for what I'm living now," said Soskin, who is the country's oldest full-time park ranger. "So it's rather an enviable spot to be in. I wouldn't think of retiring."

Soskin says she joined the park service "almost accidentally" after helping advise on the creation of the park while working as a field representative for a local state assembly person.

A social activist for much of her life, Soskin made news last year for speaking out against the government shutdown, which left her furloughed from work.

"I still think of her as an activist, but she's not out there on the picket lines anymore," said park superintendent Tom Leatherman. "She's found a way to tell those stories she thinks need to be told, but is doing it in a way which is very non-confrontational and is very personal."

The parking lot king

Name: Kenneth Curzon

Age: 91

In a career that has spanned many decades, Kenneth Curzon has done everything from managing service centers at car dealerships to acting as Smokey the Bear for the U.S. Forest Service. He's also a World War II veteran who witnessed D-Day from the beaches of Normandy as a member of the British forces.

But for the past 24 years he has been running the parking services at Scripps Memorial Hospital, which sees more than 3,000 vehicles come in and out every day.

His work day starts at 6:15 a.m. so he can ensure all of the equipment, including the parking lot gates and ticket machines, is working before he moves on to other duties, like preparing financial and operations reports.

"I'm not sure that I've ever beat him in in the morning," said hospital Chief Executive Officer Gary Fybel. "He's always here bright and early."

The extra pay has given Curzon enough cushion that he has given some of his retirement savings away to friends, family and charities.

While he has worked longer than many of his coworkers have been alive, he said he has no plans to stop.

"If they came to me and said I need to step aside then I would do that, but I would probably look for another job," he said.

The lifelong professor

Name: John Fraser Hart

Age: 90

Taking one of Professor John Fraser Hart's geography classes at the University of Minnesota is like taking a step back in time.

The World War II veteran is known for donning a bow tie and using a carousel slide projector to show off his collection of tens of thousands of Kodachrome slides of landscapes across the country, all of which he's taken himself.

"In some ways he feels like he is a relic of an earlier time but he doesn't apologize for it at all," said retired University of Minnesota professor John Adams, who worked with Hart for nearly 40 years.

While Hart's style may not appeal to everyone, many students praise him in online reviews, noting his "wacky sense of humor" and his "all-around charming and entertaining" personality.

In more than 50 years of teaching, Hart has published 15 books and taught more than 50,000 students.

While he could have afforded to retire long ago, Hart said he simply loves his job too much.

"I've learned a lot and I have a chance to share with students," he said. "Each year, I think I keep getting a little bit better at what I'm doing."

The Watermelon Festival fundraiser

Name: Novalene Slatton

Age: 90

Novalene Slatton will tell you that she owes her job to former president Bill Clinton.

She has been working at the Hope-Hempstead Chamber of Commerce ever since 1992, when Clinton had just won the Democratic nomination for president and his small hometown of Hope was flooded with visitors and phone calls. Needing extra help, the Chamber of Commerce hired Slatton as a receptionist. She's been there ever since.

Slatton now works three days a week, manning the phones and helping the office to run smoothly. But her favorite duty is soliciting donations for Hope's annual Watermelon Festival.

The festival "is something she is extremely well known for," said Chamber Executive Director Mark Keith.

Related: My biggest retirement mistake

Slatton said the money she's earned from her job has helped her contribute to savings accounts for her three grandchildren, who are in college or early on in their careers.

When she's not working, Slatton goes to horse races with her brother and visits with friends, many of whom live in retirement homes.

As for her, she says she has no plans to retire.

"I just don't want to stay at home by myself and look at four walls," says Slatton, whose second husband passed away this year. "So many people have retired, and then they say they're bored to death."

The activist judge

Name: Jack B. Weinstein

Age: 93

Nominated to the federal bench by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1967, Jack Weinstein estimates that he has heard roughly 25,000 legal cases in his career, touching on everything from discrimination against African-American students to gun manufacturing.

And his decisions have made him "one of the most renowned judges in the history of the federal judiciary," according to a 2013 American Bar Association journal profile of the U.S. District Court judge.

Long known for his judicial activism, Weinstein said he's proud of the influence he has had on the law --- no matter how controversial. "Society in this country is constantly changing, so the law has to be adjusted," he said.

He has long crusaded against mandatory minimum sentences for drug offenders, while in more recent rulings he has battled what he said were excessive prison sentences for a man who had viewed child pornography.

He still wakes each morning at 5 a.m. so he can exercise (he enjoys swimming in his pool) and make breakfast for his wife before being driven from his home in Long Island, N.Y. to the Brooklyn courthouse.

Weinstein says he has no plans to retire, citing his love for "the excitement of the law" and the opportunity to help people and "occasionally improve society, even if only very modestly."

The father of 'The Blob'

Name: Jack H. Harris

Age: 95

Jack Harris made his movie making debut with the "The Blob" when he was 39 years old -- and the film is still keeping him busy decades later.

Not only is he helping to produce the latest remake of the cult horror film (which he said is slated to be released sometime next year), but he is also advising on the production of "Blob"-related slot machines.

In February, the 95-year-old producer set a Guinness World Record for being the oldest recipient of a star on the legendary Hollywood Walk of Fame. Harris is also currently writing a memoir of his decades long entertainment career.

"That's one of Jack's favorite sayings --- getting more squeal out of the pig," said his wife Judith Harris about her husband's many ventures.

Harris first dreamed of working in Hollywood when he was a child dancing in vaudeville theaters throughout the East coast. After working in the business most of his life, he said he can't imagine quitting now.

"Living and working over 90 is something that I just found happening," he said. "I've never been a lazy guy... So I wake up with joy in the heart for the day, exercise every day like a solider and I believe you should make a living doing something you love passionately."

Document CNNWR00020141003eaa3007hh

News
Fairview Township man awaiting sentencing after indecent assault conviction

Mike Argento      
Mike Argento @FnMikeArgento on Twitter      
668 words
2 October 2014
York Daily Record
YKDR
English
© 2014 York Daily Record. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.      

Robert Alfrey, 71, who was convicted after inappropriately touching a 2-year-old girl in a Newberry Township Walmart in 2013, awaits sentencing in York County court.

A Fairview Township man who had volunteered as an advocate for abused children has been convicted after inappropriately touching a 2-year-old girl in the Newberry Township Walmart.

Robert Alfrey, 71, of the 500 block of Fishing Creek Road, was convicted Thursday morning of indecent assault without consent of other, indecent assault of a person less than 13 years of age and corruption of minors, after a jury trial in York County Common Pleas Court, the York County District Attorney's office reported.

Charges of harassment and disorderly conduct were dismissed.

He was arrested July 8, 2013, after he touched the girl, who was seated in a shopping cart at the store, according to court documents. The girl's mother was at the Redbox vending machine at the store when she heard another woman yell, "Hey." She turned around and saw Alfrey standing by her cart, holding his hands up.

Surveillance video from the store showed Alfrey following the woman and child as they shopped. It also recorded the assault. Clips of the video were presented as evidence during the trial.

Alfrey had been free on $50,000 bail. He faces a sentence that could range from three to 12 months, prosecutor Stephen McDonald said.

McDonald said Alfrey's arrest and conviction would never have happened if it hadn't been for the bystander who alerted the mother to the assault.

"If it wasn't for her, we would have never known about this," he said.

The conviction, he said, demonstrated "heightened awareness" of child sexual abuse and serves as a warning that it could happen anywhere, "even at the store where we shop for groceries."

Prior to the assault, Alfrey had been accepted as a volunteer with Cumberland County Court Appointed Special Advocates, or CASA, for Children program after completing "extensive training" and background checks, Anita Brewster, program director, said in an interview after his arrest.

She said Alfrey went through 40 hours of training five months earlier after he had completed an eight-page application. He, like all other potential CASA volunteers, also had three background checks done to look into any possible criminal history.

She said that while Alfrey had been accepted into the program as a volunteer, he had not worked with any children.

Because of incorrect information provided, an earlier version of this story contained incorrect information. It should have stated that harassment and disorderly conduct charges were dismissed.

Related

Man touches child in Walmart while mother is nearby, police say

Man faces trial

Caption: On July 9, 2013 The Newberry Township Police Department has arrested Robert R. Alfrey following an incident at the Walmart Store in Newberry Township where Alfrey approached a toddler sitting in a shopping cart with her mother several feet away and indecently assaulted her. Alfrey approached the toddler initially touching her as he exited the store. Alfrey returned from the parking lot a few moments later to again touch the child in what appears to be her genital area with his hands. A patron in the same area of the store observed the conduct and confronted him verbally which stopped the incident from progressing. This entire incident occurred with the toddlera s mother feet away. Alfrey then left the store where his vehicle was observed by witnesses who recorded his vehicle registration. The assault was recorded on store surveillance cameras which indicate he followed the child around the store. Officers later located him and placed him in custody without incident. Alfrey is charged with indecent assault without consent of others, indecent assault of persons less than 13 years of age, corruption of minors,  and disorderly conduct. Alfrey is currently in York County Prison in lieu of $50,000.00 bail. submitted      

Document YKDR000020141002eaa20003o



Regulation & Reform
What Branchless Banking Means for the CRA

By Andrea Luquetta        
763 words
1 October 2014
American Banker
AMB
Vol.1, No.1
English
(c) 2014 American Banker and SourceMedia, Inc.    All rights reserved.      

As the industry turns to online-only banking and partnerships with third-party retail distributors, it's getting harder to use geographical boundaries to define the communities that banks serve. That's why the CRA needs an update.

If Wal-Bank is the future of banking, what is the future of the Community Reinvestment Act?

Wal-Mart's plan to provide basic checking accounts through an expanded is a bright, flashing red light to regulators, Congress, and the banking industry that the CRA needs to be updated as the industry evolves.

Congress passed the CRA in 1977 in order to stop discrimination against low- and moderate-income neighborhoods by requiring banks "to demonstrate that their deposit facilities serve the convenience and needs of the communities in which they are chartered to do business." Regulators have enforced the law by performing examinations to determine whether banks are meeting the need for loans, investments and services in the areas in which they have branches.

As a strategy to ensure that banks do not discriminate against the communities from which they take deposits, this makes sense — but only as long as branches serve as a necessary nexus for banking. Thanks to the Internet and the rise of online banking, banks are far less reliant on branches. Customers can now make electronic deposits and apply for loans from just about anywhere. Meanwhile CRA enforcement remains frozen in time, loyally guarding a business model that is increasingly optional.

Without an updated CRA, banks like Green Dot can continue to use a strained interpretation of "deposit facilities" as a work-around to avoid complying with the intent of the law. While Wal-Mart locations will not be treated as branches, Green Dot customers who deposit money by swiping cards at Wal-Mart cashier stands will be engaging in much the same transaction as bank customers who make deposits at in-store branches and standalone locations.

Wal-Bank is only the latest example in a long string of developments that have highlighted the need for CRA reform. Another example is Capital One's 2012 merger with ING. Though both institutions held relatively few licensed branches across the country, the merger drew such a strong response that regulators held hearings nationwide. At the San Francisco hearing, hundreds testified asking that Capital One have a CRA obligation in California, the state that held — and still holds — a very high concentration of the bank's credit card, auto and mortgage loans. Regulators responded by requiring Capital One to establish assessment areas around two Capital One cafés located in San Francisco and Los Angeles. But rather than license the cafés as branches, Capital One merely upgraded the technology to facilitate deposits. Thus, while Capital One has CRA assessment areas around its cafes, it can still avoid providing the retail loan services that are offered only through branches.

Regulators have tried other ways to apply the CRA as the industry has changed. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency requires Schwab's Internet bank to report community development loans, investments and services in the top ten metropolitan areas it serves. That includes an annual summary of the number and kind of loans and investments Schwab makes, and of the geographic locations, income and racial characteristics of the borrowers it serves. The now-extinct Office of Thrift Supervision similarly collected information about ING's community reinvestment in fourteen areas throughout the country.

Now we must begin a broader effort to update the CRA. As to those who argue that the CRA is not worth preserving, arguing that it led to the economic meltdown by encouraging banks to loosen credit standards and make loans to borrowers who could not repay them, there is to the contrary. For example, in the run-up to the housing crisis during the years 2005 and 2006, CRA loans accounted for just 6% of subprime mortgage loan originations, according to Federal Reserve research by Neil Bhutta and Glenn B. Canner.

The banking industry is increasingly turning to mobile and online channels and third-party retail distributors as it attempts to modernize. Proponents of this model argue that it will benefit underserved communities by offering people more convenient access to banks. But if branchless banking is allowed to flourish without an updated CRA, those banks will be free to take deposits from any community anywhere in the country, without any commensurate obligation to provide other banking services there. In other words, we could wind up right back in 1977.

Document AMB0000020141001eaa10005l

Issues
Apple, Wal-Mart Can Teach CUs About Membership

By Sarah Snell Cooke      
769 words
1 October 2014
Credit Union Times
BCUT
Issue: October 1, 2014
English
Copyright © 2014. Summit Business Media. All Rights Reserved.      

Click to view image.

Sarah Snell Cooke Publisher/Editor in Chief scooke@cutimes.com

The credit union community allegedly eclipsed 100 million members this year. The figure is bogus, and even the most religious credit union believers know that figure includes not a small amount of double counting from memberships by one person at multiple credit unions and other account structures.

However, I don't think many, if any, would argue that credit union membership is not growing; apples to apples of the figures showed a 2.9% year-over-year increase. Of course, the debate remains over the quality of those members as measured by number of products used, savings versus loans, and other variables.

So while everyone is touting that faux 100 million-member benchmark, the fact that membership declined at 54% of credit unions was glossed over. A number of factors play into this decline, ranging from lack of resources to lack of energy to lack of interest from those credit unions or the potential members or both.

I'm not pointing this out to be the Debbie Downer raining on credit unions’ parade. This decline is real and systemic and must be faced as a community for the good of the entire credit union community.

CU Times has always tried to serve progressive credit unions, and what I mean by that is those credit unions that are interested in growing, looking at the future realistically, examining what's beyond the walls of the individual credit union, and keeping the board and management educated on what's happening and what's to come. We don't discriminate against credit unions based on asset size; if your credit union is thinking ahead for the long haul, we want you along for the ride.

Look at $71 million Department of Labor Federal Credit Union, which is utilizing vendors for efficiency in compliance and sharing a CFO with $58 million Destinations Credit Union. Or examine others, like The Partnership Federal Credit Union, which was born of a merger between FDIC Federal Credit Union and NSF Federal Credit Union in 2009, and more recently completed a partnership with $15.6 million Fannie Mae Federal Credit Union in 2012. The $70 million credit union in 2009 is now $146 million in 2014.

No matter a credit union's will, if it lacks the management, the resources, or membership demand, serious and complex decisions need to be made regarding the future of the institution. In that instance, the board and management cannot forget to do what's best for the membership. Too many hang on for too long, until the decisions are made for them rather than planning in a thoughtful and strategic manner. That is absolutely not in the members’ best interest.

With this in mind, two massive companies are muscling their ways into financial services. Wal-Mart finally is making its debut into checking accounts after a series of baby steps with its own branded rewards card, Green Dot, and Bluebird. What next? Orange Armadillo? Credit union executives may be dismissive of Wal-Bank, but this is short sighted. Wal-Mart knows its customers like few retailers are able; it can sort the data as only the most elite businesses can, and now it will know how much is in customers’ accounts, when, and various other bits of financial data it can massage to its benefit. This is huge.

Prior to that, Apple announced its new iPhone 6 with Apple Pay. Some pooh-poohed the idea of Apple entering the banking world. True, Apple Pay is only another mobile wallet—for now. Again, credit unions have to consider the data capabilities and the reach of a company like Apple. Financial institutions are wrong to not consider these nontraditional competitors a threat.

I don't mean tomorrow. There's no need to panic, but to not even ponder the possibilities and the impact on credit unions is incredibly dangerous. Apple possesses a cult-like status among its customers that most, if not all, credit unions cannot touch.

Consider, also that iPhone users tend to be younger than Android users, according to Ad Age, so Apple already has all of those millennials credit unions are missing. Apple knows that, too, it creates further loyalty by offering free old iPhone trade-ins through Verizon to upgrade to the iPhone 6. Apple is not being that aggressive with its pricing for no reason. It's luring its customers deeper into the cult by making them feel like what? A member.

Document BCUT000020140927eaa10000d

Verdict Search
EMPLOYMENT; Wal-Mart worker prevails on age    discrimination  claim

184 words
29 September 2014
Texas Lawyer
TEXASL
11
Volume 30; Issue 27
English
Copyright 2014 LexisNexis, a Division of Reed Elsevier, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

On Aug. 29, a Wal-Mart worker was awarded $335,515 on her claim that she was fired based on her age. In 2010, Lois Harris, then 65, had worked at the same store for 24 years. Plaintiff's counsel argued that Harris was an exemplary employee in the claims department and she received ratings of "exceeds expectations" on all of her reviews except her last one. The store claimed that Harris improperly shipped a pallet of hazardous chemicals. Two of Harris' former assistant managers, who still worked for Wal-Mart at the time of trial, were called adversely by plaintiff's counsel. They acknowledged that Harris was loyal, dedicated, hardworking, knowledgeable and a model employee.

Harris v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., No. A-110319-C

Court: 128th District Court, Orange County

Plaintiff Attorneys: Clay Dugas and Cody Rees, Clay Dugas & Associates, Beaumont

Defense Attorneys: Kerry Notestine, Ashley Frankson Hill and Melissa J. Judd, Littler Mendelson, Houston

The verdicts and settlements above are reported and written by VerdictSearch, a Texas Lawyer affiliate.      

Document TEXASL0020140929ea9t0000i

News
Apple, Wal-Mart Can Teach CUs About Membership

By Sarah Snell Cooke      
753 words
26 September 2014
Credit Union Times
BCUT
English
Copyright © 2014. Summit Business Media. All Rights Reserved.      

The credit union community allegedly eclipsed 100 million members this year. The figure is bogus, and even the most religious credit union believers know that figure includes not a small amount of double counting from memberships by one person at multiple credit unions and other account structures.

Click to view image.

However, I don’t think many, if any, would argue that credit union membership is not growing; apples to apples comparison of the figures showed a 2.9% year-over-year increase. Of course the debate remains over the quality of those members as measured by number of products used, savings versus loans, and other variables.

So while everyone is touting that faux 100 million-member benchmark, the fact that membership declined at 54% of credit unions was glossed over. A number of factors play into this decline, ranging from lack of resources to lack of energy to lack of interest from those credit unions or the potential members or both.

I’m not pointing this out to be the Debbie Downer raining on credit unions’ parade. This decline is real and systemic and must be faced as a community for the good of the entire credit union community. CU Times has always tried to serve progressive credit unions, and what I mean by that is those credit unions that are interested in growing, looking at the future realistically, examining what’s beyond the walls of the individual credit union, and keeping the board and management educated on what’s happening and what’s to come.

We don’t discriminate against credit unions based on asset size; if your credit union is thinking ahead for the long haul, we want you along for the ride. Look at the $71 million Department of Labor FCU, which is utilizing vendors for efficiency in compliance and sharing a CFO with the $58 million Destinations CU. Or examine others, like The Partnership FCU, which was born of a merger between FDIC FCU and NSF FCU in 2009, and more recently completed a partnership with the $15.6 million Fannie Mae FCU in 2012. The $70 million credit union in 2009 is now $146 million in 2014.

No matter a credit union’s will, if it lacks the management, the resources or membership demand, serious and complex decisions need to be made regarding the future of the institution. In that instance, the board and management cannot forget to do what’s best for the membership. Too many hang on for too long, until the decisions are made for them, rather than by planning in a thoughtful and strategic manner. That is absolutely not in the members’ best interest.

With that in mind, two massive companies are muscling their way into financial services.

Wal-Mart finally is making its debut into checking accounts after a series of baby steps with its own branded rewards card, Green Dot, and Bluebird.

What next? Orange Armadillo?

Credit union executives may be dismissive of Wal-Bank, but this is short sighted. Wal-Mart knows its customers like few retailers are able; it can sort the data as only the most elite businesses can, and now it will know how much is in customers’ accounts and various other bits of financial data it can massage to its benefit. This is huge.

Prior to that, Apple announced its new iPhone 6 with Apple Pay. Some pooh-poohed the idea of Apple entering the banking world. True, Apple Pay is only another mobile wallet­ – for now. Again, credit unions have to consider the data capabilities and the reach of a company like Apple. Financial institutions are wrong to not consider these nontraditional competitors a threat. I don’t mean tomorrow.

There’s no need to panic, but to not even ponder the possibilities and the impact on credit unions is incredibly dangerous. Apple possesses a cult-like status among its customers that most, if not all, credit unions cannot touch. Consider, also that iPhone users tend to be younger than Android users, according to Ad Age, so Apple already has all of those millennials credit unions are missing.

Apple knows that too, and it has built further loyalty by offering free old iPhone trade-ins through Verizon to upgrade to the iPhone 6.

Apple is not being that aggressive with its pricing for no reason. It’s luring its customers deeper into the cult by making them feel like what?

A member.

Document BCUT000020140926ea9q0002t



BC-MS--Mississippi News Digest,ADVISORY, MS

1,246 words
26 September 2014
02:02 AM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2014.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

Good morning, Mississippi editors.

The news editor is Brian Schwaner (1-504-523-3931). The AP photographer is Rogelio Solis. If you have contributions for or questions about the Mississippi report, call 1-601-948-5897. To report technical problems: 1-800-469-1362. AP stories, along with the photos that accompany them, can also be obtained from http://www.apexchange.com. Reruns are also available from the Service Desk (877-836-9477).

TOP STORIES

MOUND BAYOU MAYOR CHARGES

JACKSON, Miss. — Mound Bayou's former mayor has been indicted on charges that he stole city property and used it in his restaurant. The Bolivar County sheriff's office said Kennedy Johnson turned himself in Thursday on the three-count embezzlement indictment and is free on $15,000 bond. Sheriff's officials said Johnson is scheduled to be arraigned Tuesday. Johnson faces up to 20 years in prison and a fine of up to $5,000 on each count. By Jeff Amy. SENT: 450 words.

PATTERSON-PARTY SWITCH

JACKSON, Miss. — State Rep. Randall Patterson of Biloxi switched to the Republican Party on Thursday, boosting the GOP majority in the lower chamber of the Mississippi Legislature to 66-56 with 2015 elections just around the corner. Patterson, a 66-year-old mechanical contractor who has served in the Legislature as a Democrat since 2004, made the announcement Thursday at Biloxi City Hall with House Speaker Philip Gunn of Clinton and other GOP lawmakers. By Jeff Amy. SENT: 500 words

CHARTER SCHOOLS

JACKSON — Mississippi's Charter School Authorizer Board says groups have submitted six eligible applications to open schools in the current cycle. Applicants had submitted letters of intent to apply for 17 schools, but a majority did not submit full applications. Among the groups not moving ahead is Phoenix Early College Charter School in Natchez, a finalist last year that didn't win approval. Last year's other rejected finalist, Inspire Charter School in Columbus, is trying again. By Jeff Amy. SENT: 400 words.

With:

—BC-CHARTER SCHOOLS-GLANCE

SENATE-MISSISSIPPI

JACKSON — Attorneys for Mississippi Sen. Thad Cochran are asking the state Supreme Court to throw out a rival's attempt to overturn the senator's Republican primary victory. Cochran's team filed documents late Wednesday with the court asserting that a circuit judge correctly dismissed a lawsuit by state Sen. Chris McDaniel. By Emily Wagster Pettus. SENT: 428 words.

TUPELO SCHOOLS

TUPELO, Miss. — The Tupelo Public School District and the U.S. Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights have reached an agreement over discrimination in the district's disciplinary system, officials said Thursday. OCR investigated the school district for the 2010-11 and 2011-12 school years finding that black students, who made up nearly half of the student enrollment, had been disproportionately subjected to discipline at every stage in the discipline process. In addition, the district implemented its policies in ways that black students received harsher discipline than white students for similar offenses, the department said in a news release. UPCOMING: 400 words by 9 p.m.

SAME SEX DIVORCE-MISSISSIPPI

JACKSON — The American Civil Liberties Union wants to file a brief in support of a woman who wants the state of Mississippi to recognize her same-sex marriage in order to grant a divorce. The Mississippi Supreme Court has not ruled on the motion filed Thursday. SENT: 377 words.

LOWNDES SCHOOLS-LAWSUITS

COLUMBUS — Lynn Wright and Stacey Hester have dropped federal lawsuits that challenged their firings by the Lowndes County School Board. Wright and Hester had filed state and federal lawsuit over their firings. SENT: 328 words.

BUSINESS

FEDERAL RESERVE-LOCKHART

JACKSON — Atlanta Federal Reserve President Dennis Lockhart said Thursday he has more confidence in the economy than he did a year ago, suggesting hes not seeking an increase in interest rates until mid-2015 or later. Speaking to the Mississippi Council on Economic Education, Lockhart said he sees little danger of inflation and says the current unemployment rate is "still some distance" from full employment." By Jeff Amy. SENT: 450 words.

MISSISSIPPI NEWS IN BRIEF

GREENWOOD-GARBAGE TRUCKS

GREENWOOD — Greenwood is replacing aging vehicles in its fleet of garbage trucks and knuckle boom trucks. Mayor Carolyn McAdams says the city plans to lease four new knuckle boom trucks, three garbage trucks equipped with mechanisms for handling 95-gallon toters and two front-loaders. UPCOMING: 126 words at 3:11 a.m.

ARTS CENTER

MERIDIAN — The Meridian-based Riley Foundation is contributing $4 million for construction of a building to house the Mississippi Arts and Entertainment Center. Clay Holladay, an arts center board member, says the contribution brings fundraising efforts a little more than halfway toward the goal of $45 million. UPCOMING: 124 words at 3:30 a.m.

BLUES TRAIL MARKER

ASHLAND — Willie Mitchell, a record producer and musician who worked with Al Green and other stars, will receive a marker on the Mississippi Blues Trail. The ceremony is 1:30 p.m. Saturday at the Ashland Town Square. Mitchell was born in Ashland in north Mississippi in 1928. He died in Memphis in 2010 at the age of 81. UPCOMING: 219 words at 3:41 a.m.

COLUMBUS-SHOOTING ARREST

COLUMBUS — A third Columbus has been arrested for his role in a drive-by shooting that left one man dead and another injured this month. Kirby Erby was arrested Tuesday and charged with murder in the Sept. 6 shooting death of Joshua Richardson. Erby was also charged with aggravated assault. SENT: 100 words.

CHILD MOLESTATION-CONVICTION

VICKSBURG — A Warren County man is scheduled for sentencing Oct. 8 after being convicted this week of sexually assaulting a 9-year-old girl in 2011. Prosecutors say 30-year-old Kenny Cordell Stewart was convicted in Warren County for sexual battery of a child younger than 14 and molestation. SENT: 130 words.

TUPELO-TORNADO RECOVERY

TUPELO — The Federal Emergency Management Agency is providing $1.95 million for City of Tupelo's ongoing cleanup from an April 28 tornado. The announcement came Thursday in a news release from U.S. Sen. Thad Cochran and Roger Wicker and U.S. Rep. Alan Nunnelee. SENT: 117 words.

SBA-MISSISSIPPI FLOODING

JACKSON — The Small Business Administration is offering low-interest disaster loans to Mississippi residents and businesses affected by flooding on Sept. 11. SBA Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet says disaster aid is available in DeSoto, Marshall, Tate and Tunica counties in Mississippi. SENTL 127 words.

MEMBER EXCHANGE

TUPELO-WAL-MART MARKETS

TUPELO — Some Tupelo businesses and residents aren't too thrilled about the possibility of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. building three of its smaller-format Wal-Mart Neighborhood Markets in the city, but they may not be able to halt what appears to be inevitable. The retailer is quickly making good on its pledge to open 300 Neighborhood Markets across the country this year, and four of them will open in Northeast Mississippi. By Dennis Seid, Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal. UPCOMING: 470 words at 3 a.m.

SPORTS

FBN-FAVRE-NFL ISSUES

JACKSON — Three-time NFL Most Valuable Player Brett Favre says he believes domestic violence issues are "few and far between" in the league, but he hopes that the league's recent problems will raise "serious" awareness. The 45-year-old retired quarterback was in Jackson on Thursday after he was elected to the Mississippi Sports Hall of Fame. By Sports Writer David Brandt. SENT: 600 words.

___

The AP-Jackson

Document APRS000020140926ea9q002eq



GLAD files    discrimination  complaint against Wal-Mart over health coverage

Mary Moore      
494 words
25 September 2014
Boston Business Journal Online
BOSBJO
English
© 2014 American City Business Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.      

Gay & Lesbian Advocates & Defenders has filed a federal discrimination complaint against Wal-Mart Stores Inc. on behalf of a Massachusetts woman who works as an associate in a Swansea Walmart store.

GLAD, headquartered in Boston, filed the complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission on behalf of Jacqueline Cote. The complaint, which also was filed with the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination, alleges that Wal-Mart denied health insurance to Cote's wife, Diana Smithson, who has ovarian cancer, for six years. Wal-Mart does provide coverage for Smithson now, under a new policy that took effect this year.

Wal-Mart's refusal to provide Smithson with health insurance violated state and federal laws that prohibit gender discrimination in employment, GLAD alleges in its complaint.

The type of health care that Wal-Mart offers is one generally regulated by federal law and, under federal law, there is no prohibition against discriminating against gay employees, said Janson Wu, a senior staff attorney with GLAD.

However, Janson said, there is a federal prohibition against discrimination based on someone's gender.

"If (Cote) had been a male employee asking for benefits for his wife, she would have gotten the benefits. It's only because she was a female employee that she was denied," Wu said.

Randy Hargrove, a spokesman for the Arkansas-based company, said Wal-Mart would look into GLAD's allegations regarding discrimination based on gender. He said the company did not have a policy in place in the timeframe during which Cote applied to offer benefits to same sex couples, married or unmarried. The company expanded its policy starting in January 2014 to cover same sex spouses and domestic partners, he said.

From 2006 and through 2012, Cote tried to add Smithson to her health coverage during Wal-Mart's open enrollment periods, the complaint alleges. When Cote entered her spouse's gender as female on Walmart's online system, she was not allowed to go any further with the enrollment, the complaint says.

Cote was told that Wal-Mart did not offer health insurance coverage to same-sex spouses, according to the complaint.

Cote is still a Wal-Mart employee and Smithson has been covered under Wal-Mart's health plan since January, Wu said. By the time Wal-Mart changed its policy, Cote and Smithson had about $100,000 in medical bills, according to the complaint. Wu said GLAD is seeking to recover that money, along with some amount above the $100,000 for the emotional stress of dealing with cancer without health care.

Cote and Smithson have been together for nearly 23 years and were married in 2004, when it gay marriage became legal in Massachusetts, according to the complaint.

Did you find this article useful? Why not subscribe to Boston Business Journal for more articles and leads? Visit bizjournals.com/subscribe or call 1-866-853-3661.

Document BOSBJO0020140925ea9p000b5

The Bank of Wal-Mart Is Open for Business

1,608 words
25 September 2014
Financial Services Monitor Worldwide
FINSMEN
English
© 2014 Global Data Point. All Rights Reserved. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company      

It's safe to say that the bank industry is shaking in its boots. On Wednesday, Wal-Mart and Green Dot Bank announced a partnership to offer checking accounts to customers of the nation's largest retailer.

Wal-Mart customers want easier ways to manage their everyday finances and increasingly feel they just aren't getting value from traditional banking because of high fees, said Daniel Eckert, senior vice president of services for Wal-Mart U.S.

Unlike Wal-Mart's past forays into financial services -- most notably, its reloadable prepaid charge cards -- this one strikes at the very heart of the bank industry. Referred to as the holy grail of banking, its latest move positions the massive discount retailer to capture a piece of the nearly $3 trillion pie of noninterest bearing deposits.

Wal-Mart's banking ambitions

This is far from Wal-Mart's first attempt to break into the bank industry. But every time it's tried to nose its way in since the late 1990s, the Arkansas-based company has been met with a barrage of opposition from Wall Street and the financial industry's legions of industry lobbyists.

In 1998, it sought to integrate an Oklahoma-based thrift owned by the Walton family, but the move was rebuffed the following year by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which restricts commercial entities from operating banks.

In 2001, it attempted to establish a joint venture with Toronto-Dominion Bank, offering an array of FDIC-insured checking and savings accounts, as well as certificates of deposit, through in-store financial centers and ultimately through transaction capable electronic terminals in checkout areas in Wal-Mart stores next year. This was rejected by banking regulators who were concerned that Wal-Mart would effectively have control of the Toronto-Dominion division.

In 2002, it tried to acquire Franklin Bank of California. ''This is not an attempt to enter the retail banking system,'' a Wal-Mart spokesman said at the time. The move was motivated instead by the retailer's frustration with the high cost of processing debit card purchases.

And in 2005, Wal-Mart filed an application with the Utah Department of Financial Institutions for permission to operate an industrial bank. The stated purpose was to allow the company to process credit, debit, and electronic check payments, which would save the company millions of dollars in fees, which could then be passed on to consumers via lower prices. It was again rebuked.

On the surface, the latest plan appears to be much narrower in scope. As opposed to operating a bank itself, Wal-Mart is entering into a partnership with Green Dot Bank, an FDIC-insured institution that will exercise actual control over the deposits.

The value proposition is obvious. Many so-called 'free' checking accounts aren't really free because they have high overdraft fees, said Steve Streit, founder and CEO of Green Dot Corporation and chairman of Green Dot Bank. In fact, an independent study by Bretton Woods estimates that consumers pay approximately $218 to $314 per year for a basic checking account.

But in this proposition lies the seeds of a much broader assault on the banking industry. Wal-Mart's previous forays were aimed at minimizing transaction costs; they weren't for the purpose of entering retail banking -- that is, taking deposits and underwriting loans.

This time is different. Not only has Wal-Mart abandoned the mantra about transaction costs -- in part because it's successfully renegotiated them with Visa and others -- but its joint press release issued on Wednesday amounts to nothing less than a direct challenge to banks, almost as if Wal-Mart now perceives itself as a competitor.

The shortcomings of traditional banks

While it's hard to sympathize with Wal-Mart, it's also hard to deny that its entry into the banking industry (by way of Green Dot Bank) might actually be a good thing for millions of Americans. I say this because a non-negligible portion of the retailer's customers don't have access to even basic financial services such as checking or savings accounts.

According to the FDIC's Survey of Unbanked and Underbanked Households , 8.2% of American households are unbanked, meaning that they lack any kind of deposit account at an insured depository institution. This represents one in 12 households in the nation, or nearly 10 million in total.

On top of this, an additional 20.1% of households are underbanked, meaning that they hold a bank account, but also rely on alternative financial services providers. Taken together, more than one in four households (28.3%) are either unbanked or underbanked, conducting some or all of their financial transactions outside of the mainstream banking system.

Lest there be any doubt, the implications are serious:

Access to an account at a federally insured institution provides households with the opportunity to conduct basic financial transactions, save for emergency and long-term security needs, and access credit on fair and affordable terms. Participation in the banking system also protects households from theft and reduces their vulnerability to discriminatory or predatory lending practices.

The irony, of course, is that the banking industry, if it were genuinely concerned about Wal-Mart's encroachment, would cure this issue itself. However, the economics associated with doing so make it prohibitively expensive.

As I've noted before , the average checking account costs the nation's biggest banks between $350 and $450 per year to service. Meanwhile, the average revenue per account comes in around $268 per year. The deficit, in turn, is intended to be offset by the use of additional products.

The problem is that somewhere around 40% to 50% of checking accounts are associated with households that live paycheck to paycheck. Thus, aside from perhaps a credit card, the likelihood that these households would use additional financial products is slim to none.

The net result has been threefold. First, the nation's biggest banks have gone out of their way to exploit and alienate their poorest, and thus lease lucrative, customers. Among other things, they've coerced account holders into purchasing valueless add-on products, they've fixed ostensibly neutral arbitration forums, they've reordered debit card transactions in an effort to maximize overdraft fees, and they spearheaded much of the fraud in subprime lending before the financial crisis.

As these channels of revenue have been successively closed by regulators, legislation, and private lawsuits, banks have changed course by blacklisting large swaths of Americans from access to financial services in the first place. Institutions such as Bank of America , Citibank , and Wells Fargo are now tapping into a proprietary database that documents when people run afoul of a bank by defaulting on a loan or failing to pay overdraft fees. The information is used to approve or deny applications for a checking or savings accounts, among other things.

Finally, aside from denying accounts to new customers, large banks are also making an effort to minimize the services they provide to existing customers who don't carry large balances. The corporate strategy at Bank of America, for instance, is to double down on their preferred customers -- that is, those with the largest balances and/or most financial products -- while scaling back the services used most frequently by small account holders.

And, just for the record, these are all the very same points that came up the last time Wal-Mart attempted to nudge its way into the banking industry. As The New York Times ' David Leonhardt wrote after the Arkansas-based retailer's 2005 attempt to get an industrial bank charter in Utah:

For all the criticism of Wal-Mart -- much of it deserved -- you simply cannot argue with the fact that the company saves its customers money. It roots out inefficiencies, cuts the price on a product, and forces its competitors to match. That is why it is easily the nation's most popular store.

Now think about what would happen if Wal-Mart applied its legendary price-cutting to banking. Because starting a new bank is quite difficult, banks have been able to get away with things that other companies just can't. They refuse to give you access to money for days after you cash a check, even though the money itself now moves within minutes. And they have long ignored low-income families, because the banks can make enough money elsewhere.

As a result, many of these families pay exorbitant fees to cash checks. They have credit card interest rates and mortgage rates that look as if they came out of the 1980s. It is not just poor people who are ill-served by the financial-services business, either. More than half of American families still do not have their own retirement accounts.

Caught between a rock and a hard space

The point here is that consumers, and particularly those on the lower end of the economic spectrum, are caught between a rock and a hard place. On one side are traditional banks that have a long and colorful history of exploiting the underprivileged. And on the other is Wal-Mart, a retail behemoth that has slashed and burned the U.S. retail landscape since its founding in the early 1960s.

Yet this doesn't come down to a least-worst option. Millions of American households don't have access to banking services to facilitate saving for retirement or provide protection against financial fraud. If banks aren't willing to provide these services, then they should get out of Wal-Mart's way and allow it to do so.

Document FINSMEN020140925ea9p000ai

Search Summary

 All of these words

     At least one of these words
discrimination discriminatory discriminate discriminates discriminated discriminating harassment
     None of these words

     This exact phrase

     Date
09/22/2014 to 11/21/2014
     Source
All Sources
     Author
All Authors
     Company
Walmart Inc
     Subject
All Subjects
     Industry
All Industries
     Region
All Regions
     Language
English
     Results Found
50
     Timestamp
16 June 2023 10:31 AM
    
