 
•	Man was naked at Asda because he didn't know where his clothes were
•	Seventh Circuit Affirms Denial Of Class Certification For Failure To Show Commonality Under Dukes In Vacation Pay Suit
•	UPDATE 1-Wal-Mart owes pharmacist $16.08 mln for gender bias, sum may drop
•	Wal-Mart owes pharmacist $16.08 million for gender bias, sum may drop
•	Wal-Mart told to pay pharmacist $16.08 mln for gender bias, sum may drop
•	The legal landmarks - and landmines - that lie ahead
•	Group blasts Wal-Mart security packaging on black hair items
•	United States : Wal-Mart to pay $75,000 to Settle EEOC Disability Lawsuit
•	WAL-MART TO PAY $75,000 TO SETTLE EEOC DISABILITY LAWSUIT
•	California Appellate Court Permits Use of Statistical Sampling to Prove Class Certification
•	Wal-Mart, Wells Fargo and others earn top scores for LGBTQ equality; Record number of corporations increase gay and trans-inclusive policies
•	Wal-Mart faces more damages in wage case.(Law)
•	Walmart settles same-sex spouse benefits discrimination suit
•	Wal-Mart Reaches $7.5 Million Settlement in Same-Sex Spouse Benefits Complaint; An estimated 1,100 workers may be eligible to be compensated
•	Walmart agrees to $7.5 million settlement in same-sex benefits lawsuit
•	Walmart will pay out $7.5 MILLION for class-action lawsuit that says the company denied gay couples the same benefits it offered straight spouses
•	Wal-mart settles gay bias suit
•	Wal-mart settles gay bias suit
•	Wal-mart settles gay bias suit
•	Wal-mart settles gay bias suit
•	Wal-Mart Reaches $7.5 Million Settlement in Same-Sex Spouse Benefits Complaint
•	Wal-Mart Reaches $7.5 Million Settlement in Same-Sex Spouse Benefits Complaint
•	Walmart agrees to $7.5 million settlement in discrimination suit
•	Walmart settles in same-sex lawsuit
•	Walmart agrees to $7.5 million settlement in same-sex discrimination suit
•	Wal-Mart Says Settlement Points To Diversity And Inclusion
•	Wal-Mart to settle U.S. lawsuit over benefits for same-sex spouses
•	Wal-Mart to settle U.S. lawsuit over benefits for same-sex spouses
•	Jacqueline Cote and Walmart Announce Class Settlement Over Health Insurance Benefits for Same-Sex Spouses of Walmart Associates
•	Briefcase
•	Chadbourne Asks Judge to Toss Partners' Gender Bias Suit; THE FIRM
•	Chadbourne Asks Judge to Toss Partners' Gender Bias Suit; THE FIRM
•	Chadbourne Asks Judge to Toss Partners' Gender Bias Suit; THE FIRM
•	DIARY FOR THURSDAY NOVEMBER 17
•	Chadbourne & Parke Asks Court To Toss Partners' Gender Bias Suit
•	Rhode Island men allege discrimination by Wal-Mart



News
Man was naked at Asda because he didn't know where his clothes were

By Emma Davison 
349 words
11 January 2017
09:16 AM
examiner.co.uk
HUDEXONL
English
© 2017 Trinity Mirror 

He asks police if they know where his clothes are

A man caught wandering naked around a supermarket car park swore at police and told him he didn’t know where his clothes were.

Alarmed shoppers pointed out Patrick McCarthy as he attended the 24-hour Asda store in Huddersfield starkers in the early hours of this morning.

Bearded McCarthy, 52, pleaded guilty to a public order offence of using threatening behaviour likely to cause harassment, alarm or distress.

He was arrested following the incident at just after 2am and brought straight beforeKirklees Magistrates’ Courtin custody today.

Prosecutor Andy Wills said that two on-duty police officers had gone to the Bradford Road store to buy some refreshments during their break.

He told magistrates: “They were in the store when members of the public informed them about a gentleman walking around the car park totally naked.

“The officers went outside and saw the defendant with no clothes on wandering around.

“When they asked him where his clothes where his response was: ‘I don’t f****g know – do you?’”

McCarthy, of Clare House in Clare Hill, was warned about his language and then arrested.

He was initially charged with the more serious offence of outraging public decency before this was replaced with the public order offence at court today.

Magistrates were told that McCarthy needed to be assessed by a mental health worker as he had reported hearing voices.

He had been out of trouble since he was sentenced to 18 months in custody for an assault back in 1983.

Paul Blanchard, mitigating, told magistrates: “This is an unusual set of circumstances.

“Mr McCarthy clearly has issues that will need to be dealt with effectively.

“He’s embarrassed in relation to how he found himself like this in the Asda car park.”

Magistrates gave McCarthy a 12 month conditional discharge.

He still must pay £85 court costs and £20 victim surcharge.

Locked up in December - these criminals are now behind bars

Document HUDEXONL20170111ed1b00231



Seventh Circuit Affirms Denial Of Class Certification For Failure To Show Commonality Under Dukes In Vacation Pay Suit

Mark Batten 
880 words
11 January 2017
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2017 Mondaq Ltd 

Last week, in McCaster et al. v. Darden Restaurants, Inc. et al., No. 15-3258 (7th Cir. Jan. 5, 2017), the Seventh Circuit relied on Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes, 564 U.S. 338 (2011) and affirmed the district court's denial of class certification of Plaintiffs' claims for vacation pay under state law.  The Seventh Circuit's reliance on Dukes demonstrates that the Supreme Court's holding extends beyond the discrimination context and applies with equal force in wage and hour class actions (at least within the Seventh Circuit).  The Court concluded that Plaintiffs' proposed class definition constituted an impermissible "fail safe" class because an individual's membership in the class turned on the merits of his or her claim, and that Plaintiffs' alternative class definition did not satisfy the commonality requirement of Rule 23 under Dukes.

 This decision exemplifies the critical balance plaintiffs must strike in defining their proposed classes; while a "fail safe" class will not be permitted, a class definition that is too broad will not satisfy the requirements of Rule 23.

*                      *                      *

Plaintiffs Demiko McCaster and Jennifer Clark, who worked at two different restaurants owned by Darden Restaurants, Inc., alleged that Darden failed to pay them the accrued vacation pay allegedly owed to them upon their separation from employment in violation of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act ("IWPCA"). Here, the "vacation pay" at issue was actually "anniversary payments" paid to eligible employees when they reached the annual anniversary of their hiring date.  The anniversary payments are referred to as "vacation pay" because Darden treated the anniversary payments as vacation pay for purposes of the IWPCA, and when an employee stopped working for the company, Darden would include the pro rata amount of anniversary pay in the employee's final paycheck.

Plaintiffs sought to bring claims on behalf of themselves and "[a]ll persons separated from employment with [Darden] in Illinois between December 11, 2003, and the conclusion of this action[] who were subject to Darden's Vacation Policy . . . and who did not receive all earned vacation pay benefits." The Seventh Circuit agreed with the district court that this definition described an improper "fail safe" class because membership in the class was dependent on whether an individual had a valid claim.

In an attempt to address the district court's concerns with the "fail safe" class, Plaintiffs proposed an alternative definition, which omitted the phrase "who did not receive all earned vacation pay benefits." By way of their alternate class definition, Plaintiffs sought to bring claims on behalf of "[a]ll persons separated from employment with [Darden] in Illinois between December 11, 2003, and the conclusion of this action[]."  The Seventh Circuit concluded that Plaintiffs did not satisfy the fundamental commonality requirement of Rule 23(a) because the alternate class consisted of all employees who separated from employment with Darden during a specific time period but Plaintiffs did not identify any unlawful conduct by Darden that covered the entire putative class and that caused putative class members to suffer the same injury.

The Court explained that Plaintiffs had not "pointed to any unlawful practice or act common to the class" and did not, for example, argue that Darden's vacation-pay policy violated the IWPCA on its face. Rather, Plaintiffs simply claimed that some former employees did not receive all of the vacation pay they were allegedly due under the vacation policy without proffering any common proof that could establish liability on a class-wide basis.  Accordingly, the Seventh Circuit concluded that the case "raise[d] only an amalgam of individual IWPCA pay claims by McCaster, Clark, and other separated employees . . . that may (or may not) be valid based on the employee's particular circumstances" and assessing the merits of the claims would depend "entirely on each employee's individual work history [with Darden] and the specific payroll practices of the managers of the restaurants where they worked."

The Court acknowledged that Plaintiffs had offered one question that was technically "common" to the putative class - whether Darden's vacation pay policy is a length of service policy subject to the pro rata requirement of the IWPCA. The Court found that this question did not advance Plaintiffs' argument in support of class certification. It was undisputed that Darden treated the vacation pay as subject to the IWPCA's pro rata requirement and therefore the answer to that "common" question did not satisfy the commonality requirement of Rule 23 under Dukes because it did not resolve "an issue that is central to the validity of each one of the claims in one stroke."

Seventh Circuit Affirms Denial Of Class Certification For Failure To Show Commonality Under Dukes In Vacation Pay Suit

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Mr Mark Batten

Proskauer Rose LLP

Eleven Times Square

New York

NY 10036-8299

UNITED STATES

Tel: 2129693000

Fax: 2129692900

E-mail: gpolk@proskauer.com

URL: www.proskauer.com

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2017 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Document BBPUB00020170111ed1b0008t



UPDATE 1-Wal-Mart owes pharmacist $16.08 mln for gender bias, sum may drop

448 words
10 January 2017
01:50 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2017 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 

* "Reasonable minds can differ" about damages owed -U.S. judge

* New Hampshire court to review enhanced damages issue

* Pharmacist says was fired because of gender, complaints (Adds Wal-Mart statement, paragraph 4)

By Jonathan Stempel

Jan 10 (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc has been ordered by a federal judge to pay $16.08 million to a former New Hampshire pharmacist in a gender bias case, but the amount is only about half what a jury awarded and may fall substantially further.

U.S. District Judge Steven McAuliffe also asked the New Hampshire Supreme Court to advise whether the plaintiff Maureen McPadden was entitled under state law to any of the $15 million of "enhanced" damages that comprised most of the award.

Though "reasonable minds can differ," Wal-Mart "asserts - not implausibly" that such damages are not available, the Concord, New Hampshire judge wrote on Jan. 6.

Wal-Mart considers the damages award "improper," spokesman Randy Hargrove said in an email. "We look forward to the New Hampshire Supreme Court's determination."

The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer has said it does not tolerate discrimination.

McPadden accused the world's largest retailer of using her loss of a pharmacy key as a pretext for her November 2012 dismissal from a store in Seabrook, New Hampshire, after more than 13 years at the retailer.

She said Wal-Mart actually fired her in retaliation for her raising concerns about whether prescriptions were being filled properly. McPadden also said her gender played a role, saying a male pharmacist who later lost his key was not fired.

Jurors originally awarded McPadden $31.22 million, a sum that McAuliffe said was "to say the least, startling."

As required by federal law, the judge later reduced the punitive damages component, to $300,000 from $15 million, and in a Jan. 5 order said McPadden deserved just $111,591 of front pay, one-fifth what the jury had awarded.

Wal-Mart had sought to overturn the entire verdict, but McAuliffe rejected that request in September.

Rick Fradette, a lawyer for McPadden, said that if enhanced damages were ever warranted, "it is where the world's largest private employer continues to discriminate against women in the 21st century.

"Wal-Mart's posture has been that it will fight this to the end," he said. "We'll see what the New Hampshire Supreme Court has to say."

The case is McPadden v. Wal-Mart Stores East LP, U.S. District Court, District of New Hampshire, No. 14-00475. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Richard Chang) 

Released: 2017-1-10T20:50:33.000Z 

Document LBA0000020170110ed1a011i3



Wal-Mart owes pharmacist $16.08 million for gender bias, sum may drop

409 words
10 January 2017
01:51 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2017 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 

(Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc has been ordered by a federal judge to pay $16.08 million to a former New Hampshire pharmacist in a gender bias case, but the amount is only about half what a jury awarded and may fall substantially further.

U.S. District Judge Steven McAuliffe also asked the New Hampshire Supreme Court to advise whether the plaintiff Maureen McPadden was entitled under state law to any of the $15 million of "enhanced" damages that comprised most of the award.

Though "reasonable minds can differ," Wal-Mart "asserts - not implausibly" that such damages are not available, the Concord, New Hampshire judge wrote on Jan. 6.

Wal-Mart considers the damages award "improper," spokesman Randy Hargrove said in an email. "We look forward to the New Hampshire Supreme Court's determination."

The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer has said it does not tolerate discrimination.

McPadden accused the world's largest retailer of using her loss of a pharmacy key as a pretext for her November 2012 dismissal from a store in Seabrook, New Hampshire, after more than 13 years at the retailer.

She said Wal-Mart actually fired her in retaliation for her raising concerns about whether prescriptions were being filled properly. McPadden also said her gender played a role, saying a male pharmacist who later lost his key was not fired.

Jurors originally awarded McPadden $31.22 million, a sum that McAuliffe said was "to say the least, startling."

As required by federal law, the judge later reduced the punitive damages component, to $300,000 from $15 million, and in a Jan. 5 order said McPadden deserved just $111,591 of front pay, one-fifth what the jury had awarded.

Wal-Mart had sought to overturn the entire verdict, but McAuliffe rejected that request in September.

Rick Fradette, a lawyer for McPadden, said that if enhanced damages were ever warranted, "it is where the world's largest private employer continues to discriminate against women in the 21st century.

"Wal-Mart's posture has been that it will fight this to the end," he said. "We'll see what the New Hampshire Supreme Court has to say."

The case is McPadden v. Wal-Mart Stores East LP, U.S. District Court, District of New Hampshire, No. 14-00475.

(Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Richard Chang) 

Released: 2017-1-10T19:51:26.000Z 

Document LBA0000020170110ed1a00xn5



Wal-Mart told to pay pharmacist $16.08 mln for gender bias, sum may drop

397 words
10 January 2017
12:33 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2017 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 

Jan 10 (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc has been ordered by a federal judge to pay $16.08 million to a former New Hampshire pharmacist in a gender bias case, but the amount is only about half what a jury awarded and may fall substantially further.

U.S. District Judge Steven McAuliffe also asked the New Hampshire Supreme Court to advise whether the plaintiff Maureen McPadden was entitled under state law to any of the $15 million of "enhanced" damages that comprised most of the award.

Though "reasonable minds can differ," Wal-Mart "asserts - not implausibly" that such damages are not available, the Concord, New Hampshire judge wrote on Jan. 6.

Wal-Mart had no immediate comment on Tuesday, but the Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer has said it does not tolerate discrimination.

McPadden accused the world's largest retailer of using her loss of a pharmacy key as a pretext for her November 2012 dismissal from a store in Seabrook, New Hampshire, after more than 13 years at the retailer.

She said Wal-Mart actually fired her in retaliation for her raising concerns about whether prescriptions were being filled properly. McPadden also said her gender played a role, saying a male pharmacist who later lost his key was not fired.

Jurors originally awarded McPadden $31.22 million, a sum that McAuliffe said was "to say the least, startling."

The judge later reduced the punitive damages component to $300,000 from $15 million as required by federal law, and in a Jan. 5 order said McPadden deserved just $111,591 of front pay, one-fifth what the jury had awarded.

Wal-Mart had sought to overturn the entire verdict, but McAuliffe rejected that request in September.

Rick Fradette, a lawyer for McPadden, said that if enhanced damages were ever warranted, "it is where the world's largest private employer continues to discriminate against women in the 21st century.

"Wal-Mart's posture has been that it will fight this to the end," he said. "We'll see what the New Hampshire Supreme Court has to say."

The case is McPadden v. Wal-Mart Stores East LP, U.S. District Court, District of New Hampshire, No. 14-00475. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Richard Chang) 

Released: 2017-1-10T19:33:50.000Z 

Document LBA0000020170110ed1a00x3x



Business
The legal landmarks - and landmines - that lie ahead

1,120 words
4 January 2017
The Western Mail
WESMAI
1; National
8,9
English
(c) 2017 Western Mail and Echo Ltd 

Emma Burns, partner and head of employment at Hugh James, advises on how employers can gear up for expected changes relating to equal pay and holiday pay in 2017

¦ Equal pay The Asda equal pay case (Brierley and others v Asda Stores Ltd) received a great deal of media attention last year. Women working in the stores claimed they got less pay than male staff in the distribution depots.

Asda runs a retail operation of 630 UK stores, employing 133,000 staff, and a distribution operation, made up of 24 distribution centres with 11,600 staff. None of the distribution centres are on the same site as any of the stores, but both are run by the same executive board, which is subject to governance by Wal-Mart. The preliminary issue considered by the employment tribunal was whether the women in the retail stores could compare themselves with the men in the depots. The tribunal decided that they could, because there was a single source responsible for determining the pay of both groups of employees.

It has been reported that the sums in issue in these proceedings could exceed £100m and that Asda is now considering its options for appealing this preliminary point.

Unless settled, this case still has a long way to run and demonstrates the complexity of such claims and the fact that equal pay claims can take many years to resolve.

¦ Modern slavery The Modern Slavery Act 2015 was designed to tackle slavery in the UK while consolidating previous legislation concerning trafficking and slavery. We have just seen the deadline pass for large employers (those with a £36m turnover) to publish their first modern slavery statement, which must detail what action they have taken to ensure their business and supply chains are slavery-free.

¦ Immigration Act The Immigration Act 2014 made illegal working a criminal offence in its own right. Those found breaking the law will face a maximum custodial sentence of six months and/or a tough fine. Employers must ensure they always obtain an original right to work document from the Home Office's prescribed list before the staff member starts work. Employers then need to check the authenticity and validity of the document in the presence of the employee. They must also keep clear copies of the checked document with a note of the date the check was made and initials of the individual who verified it.

¦ National Living Wage As part of the 2015 Budget, the Government announced it would introduce a premium, over and above the National Minimum Wage for over-25s. Known as the National Living Wage, it is set at £7.20 per hour, rising to £7.50 per hour on April 1, 2017. Employers not meeting these rates of pay are liable to pay a maximum of £20,000 per worker.

¦ Forthcoming legislative changes This year we anticipate a number of changes including the introduction of a tax-free childcare scheme, the apprenticeship levy, gender paygap reporting, consideration of further pregnancy and maternity rights, tribunal fees, GDPR compliance, taxation of termination payments and grandparental leave. Here is a summary of what's on the horizon: ¦ Childcare vouchers Early next year, the current voucher system is expected to be scrapped and eligible working parents will be able to claim 20% of qualifying childcare costs for children under five. The Government will top up any payments capped at a maximum of £2,000 a year for each child.

¦ Apprenticeship levy Employers with an annual pay bill of more than £3m will be required to pay a 0.5% levy on their total pay bill starting from April 2017. Employers based in England will be able to use this levy to pay for apprentice training. Welsh employers will see the levy go straight to HMRC.

¦ Gender paygap regulation New regulations will come into force on April 1, 2017, requiring nonpublic-sector employers with more than 250 staff to publish information annually. The Government is currently consulting on a proposal for similar regulations for public sector bodies in England with more than 250 employees at the same time.

The data will need to be published on both the employer's website and a Government website, which will have a league table approach, within 12 months of April 30 each year, with the first publication by April 30, 2018. There is currently no penalty for failure to publish, so employers must decide whether they are going to do so.

The required data includes: ¦ Mean difference between male and female average hourly pay; ¦ Median difference between male and female average hourly pay ¦ Mean difference between male and female employees' average bonuses; ¦ Differences in the proportion of male and female employees receiving bonuses; ¦ Numbers of male and female employees in each quartile of the employer's pay range; Employers need to start looking at their figures now so as to compare against sector averages. This will give them an opportunity to address any pay issues which come to light.

¦ Tribunal fees Since tribunal fees were introduced three years ago, the number of tribunal claims has dropped by around 70%. There is an outstanding legal challenge by Unison to the fees, which range from £160-£1,200. The case is due to be heard by the Supreme Court in March. The challenge has failed in the lower courts and last August was rejected by the Court of Appeal.

We are also awaiting the outcome of a Government review of the fees.

¦ Pregnancy and maternity discrimination The Government is currently considering recommendations made in a report by the Women and Equalities Committee. Citing figures on the gender pay gap and the doubling of expectant and new mothers forced to leave their jobs, the report calls for UK women to have protections similar to those in Germany, where from the beginning of pregnancy until four months after childbirth employers can only dismiss an employee in very rare circumstances and need Government approval to do so.

The report also recommends: ¦ A substantial reduction in the £1,200 fee for women taking pregnancy-related discrimination cases to an employment tribunal; ¦ Increasing the three-month limit on taking cases to the tribunal to six months. The Government previously stated in its response to the EHRC pregnancy and maternity discrimination report that it will not introduce a six-month limit; ¦ Assurances that rights and protections would not be eroded, given the uncertainty following the vote to leave the European Union; ¦ A detailed plan to be published by the Government within the next two years; ¦ Increasing protection for casual, agency and zero-hours workers; ¦ Protection from redundancy until six months after a return to work.

Document WESMAI0020170104ed140000c



Group blasts Wal-Mart security packaging on black hair items

154 words
21 December 2016
08:27 AM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2016.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved. 

SUFFOLK, Va. (AP) — A group says some Virginia Wal-Mart stores are discriminating by using security packaging on black hair products.

The Virginian-Pilot reports (http://bit.ly/2i0plbo) members of the Making Change at Walmart campaign held a news conference earlier this month, saying security boxes were being used on hair products for African-Americans at two Suffolk and Norfolk stores.

The national campaign is run by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union.

This week, the group launched a television ad, asking viewers to call Suffolk Mayor Linda Johnson and "tell her to demand Wal-Mart stop."

Wal-Mart spokesman Phillip Keene said in a statement that the allegations are false and offensive. Keene said some products are more frequently targeted by shoplifters, thus the company takes "normal" measures to protect the items against theft.

___

Information from: The Virginian-Pilot, http://pilotonline.com

Document APRS000020161221eccl00c46



United States : Wal-Mart to pay $75,000 to Settle EEOC Disability Lawsuit

485 words
13 December 2016
Emirates News Agency (WAM)
EMNEAG
English
© 2016, Emirates News Agency (WAM), All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.. 

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. will pay a former employee $75,000 to settle a disability discrimination lawsuit filed by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the federal agency announced today.

EEOC's lawsuit charged Wal-Mart with violating federal discrimination law when the giant retailer failed to accommodate Nancy Stack, a cancer survivor with physical limitations, and subjected her to harassment based on her disability. Stack worked at a Walmart store in Hodgkins, Ill.

As a workplace accommodation, Stack needed a chair and a modified schedule. EEOC alleged that while the store provided Stack with a modified schedule for a period of time, it revoked the accommodation for no stated reason. Further, according to EEOC, the store did not ensure that a chair was in Stack's work area, telling her that she had to haul a chair from the furniture department to her work area, a task that was difficult, given her disability. Making matters even worse, EEOC alleged that a co-worker harassed Stack by calling her "cripple" and "chemo brain."

Wal-Mart's alleged conduct violates the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability, which can include denying reasonable accommodations to employees with disabilities and subjecting them to a hostile work environment. EEOC filed suit in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division (Equal Employment Opportunity Commission v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.; Civil Action No. 15-cv-5796.)

Wal-Mart will pay $75,000 in monetary relief to Stack as part of a consent decree settling the suit, signed by U.S. District Judge Sharon Coleman on Dec. 6th. The two-year decree also provides additional, non-monetary relief intended to improve the Hodgkins store's workplace. Under the decree, the store will train employees on disability discrimination and requests for reasonable accommodations under the ADA. The Walmart store will also monitor requests for accommodation and complaints of disability discrimination and report those to EEOC.

"Wal-Mart refused to provide simple, effective and inexpensive accommodations in the form of a chair and modified schedule and failed to protect Stack from mocking because she had cancer," said John Hendrickson, regional attorney of EEOC's Chicago District Office. "Both the failure to provide accommodations and to stop the harassment violated federal law, and we are pleased with today's settlement. Ms. Stack will receive monetary recompense from Wal-Mart, and the company will be required to educate its workforce on employees' rights and on its own obligations under the law."

EEOC's Chicago District Office is responsible for processing charges of employment discrimination, administrative enforcement, and the conduct of agency litigation in Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa and North and South Dakota, with Area Offices in Milwaukee and Minneapolis.

EEOC advances opportunity in the workplace by enforcing federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination.

Document EMNEAG0020161214eccd00031



WAL-MART TO PAY $75,000 TO SETTLE EEOC DISABILITY LAWSUIT

538 words
12 December 2016
US Fed News
INDFED
English
Copyright 2016. HT Media Limited. All rights reserved. 

CHICAGO, Dec. 12 -- The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission issued the following press release:

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. will pay a former employee $75,000 to settle a disability discrimination lawsuit filed by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the federal agency announced today.

EEOC's lawsuit charged Wal-Mart with violating federal discrimination law when the giant retailer failed to accommodate Nancy Stack, a cancer survivor with physical limitations, and subjected her to harassment based on her disability. Stack worked at a Walmart store in Hodgkins, Ill.

As a workplace accommodation, Stack needed a chair and a modified schedule. EEOC alleged that while the store provided Stack with a modified schedule for a period of time, it revoked the accommodation for no stated reason. Further, according to EEOC, the store did not ensure that a chair was in Stack's work area, telling her that she had to haul a chair from the furniture department to her work area, a task that was difficult, given her disability. Making matters even worse, EEOC alleged that a co-worker harassed Stack by calling her "cripple" and "chemo brain."

Wal-Mart's alleged conduct violates the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability, which can include denying reasonable accommodations to employees with disabilities and subjecting them to a hostile work environment. EEOC filed suit in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division (Equal Employment Opportunity Commission v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.; Civil Action No. 15-cv-5796.)

Wal-Mart will pay $75,000 in monetary relief to Stack as part of a consent decree settling the suit, signed by U.S. District Judge Sharon Coleman on Dec. 6th. The two-year decree also provides additional, non-monetary relief intended to improve the Hodgkins store's workplace. Under the decree, the store will train employees on disability discrimination and requests for reasonable accommodations under the ADA. The Walmart store will also monitor requests for accommodation and complaints of disability discrimination and report those to EEOC.

"Wal-Mart refused to provide simple, effective and inexpensive accommodations in the form of a chair and modified schedule and failed to protect Stack from mocking because she had cancer," said John Hendrickson, regional attorney of EEOC's Chicago District Office. "Both the failure to provide accommodations and to stop the harassment violated federal law, and we are pleased with today's settlement. Ms. Stack will receive monetary recompense from Wal-Mart, and the company will be required to educate its workforce on employees' rights and on its own obligations under the law."

EEOC's Chicago District Office is responsible for processing charges of employment discrimination, administrative enforcement, and the conduct of agency litigation in Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa and North and South Dakota, with Area Offices in Milwaukee and Minneapolis.

EEOC advances opportunity in the workplace by enforcing federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination. More information is available at www.eeoc.gov. Stay connected with the latest EEOC news by subscribing to our email updates.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com 

Document INDFED0020161215eccc0036b



California Appellate Court Permits Use of Statistical Sampling to Prove Class Certification

Stuart Tochner 
549 words
10 December 2016
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2016 Mondaq Ltd 

Statistical sampling has always been an effective and efficient way for plaintiffs to establish class action liability in California. After some hope that a 2011 decision by the Supreme Court of the United States might hamper that ability, a California appellate court has reaffirmed statistical sampling as a viable method available to class action plaintiffs to prove their cases.

On November 21, 2016, California's Second District Court of Appeal ruled that wage-and-hour plaintiffs are not barred from using a sample of statistical evidence as a basis to prove class certification and permitted the use of such evidence in a class action brought by a class of 10,000 to 13,000 security officers against their employer.

The decision in Lubin v. The Wackenhut Corp., B244383 (November 21, 2016) limited the application of the Supreme Court's employer-friendly decision in Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes 564 U.S. 338 (2011). In Wal-Mart, the Supreme Court had reversed a grant of class certification as to 1.5 million female employees alleging gender discrimination, ruling that a lower court's reliance upon statistical sampling had been misplaced. The trial court in Lubin had initially granted plaintiff's motion for class certification, but then reversed itself, based upon the then-newly decided Wal-Mart case. The Second District last week reversed that decision, restoring instead the trial court's original decision to certify the class.

The plaintiffs in Lubin alleged that the putative class members had signed written on-duty meal period agreements that did not include certain required revocation language. Rather than review each relevant agreement, the parties agreed to a statistical sampling of agreements, and to extrapolate the extent of compliant language to the entire class. After Wal-Mart was decided, however, the employer moved to decertify the class, contending that statistical sampling was now improper. The trial court agreed, and decertified the class.

Quoting a new Supreme Court case from 2016, the Second District in Lubin ruled that "Wal-Mart does not 'stand for the broad proposition that a representative sample is an impermissible means of establishing classwide liability.'" Rather, the admissibility of statistical sampling depends "on the degree to which the evidence is reliable in proving or disproving the elements of the relevant cause of action." Statistical sampling, the court concluded, may not have been sufficiently reliable in the Wal-Mart case (which was a Title VII gender discrimination case), but it was sufficiently in probative in this wage-and-hour matter.

Lubin therefore clarifies that statistical sampling can still be used in limited circumstances to establish liability, subject to the relevancy concerns articulated in Wal-Mart. It is one more weapon available to plaintiffs' attorneys to prove class action claims, and is not summarily barred as the trial court had held in this case.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Mr Stuart Tochner

Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart

191 Peachtree St NW #4800,

Atlanta

Atlanta

GA 30308

UNITED STATES

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2016 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Document BBPUB00020161210ecca00064



Personal Finance
Wal-Mart, Wells Fargo and others earn top scores for LGBTQ equality; Record number of corporations increase gay and trans-inclusive policies

Kari Paul, MarketWatch 
545 words
9 December 2016
01:22 PM
MarketWatch
MRKWC
English
Copyright 2016 MarketWatch, Inc.    All Rights Reserved. 

Record number of corporations increase gay and trans-inclusive policies

Wal-Mart (WMT, US)  joined a record number of corporations in earning top scores for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer-inclusive company policies, according to a yearly report from leading civil rights organization Human Rights Campaign.

“Even in the face of relentless attempts to undermine equality, America’s leading companies and law firms remain steadfast and committed to supporting and defending the rights and dignity of LGBTQ people,” HRC president Chad Griffin said in a statement.

The Corporate Equality Index rates companies based on how inclusive their policies and benefits are toward lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees. It uses five categories as measurement: non-discrimination policies, employment benefits, LGBTQ diversity and inclusion, public commitment to LGBTQ equality and “responsible citizenship.”

Of the 887 companies surveyed in this year’s report, 517 earned a perfect 100% score—the most in the 15-year history of the index. Other corporations celebrated their 100% scores on Twitter this week, including Wells Fargo (WFC, US) , American Airlines (AAL, US) , Citi (C, US)  and General Motors (GM, US) .

The vast majority of these companies now offer same-sex domestic partner or spousal benefits at 98%, while 93% had adopted equal employment policies. The number of companies offering transgender-inclusive health care jumped to 647 from 511 last year.

Wal-Mart is one of many companies to update its health benefits to be more inclusive and got its highest score ever — 100%, up from 40% in 2008.

Also see: Why I ditched Wells Fargo for a virtual bank

There are no federal laws offering the same protections on the basis of gender or sexual orientation, although there are U.S. laws that explicitly ban workplace discrimination based on race, religion and disability. In 28 states, workers can still legally be fired for their sexual orientation and President-elect Donald Trump has promised to repeal related laws protecting federal workers.

Because of these and other anti-LGBTQ legislation proposed in the past years, the HRC report says, the private sector has outpaced lawmakers in implementing progressive LGBTQ policies.

“We are committed to fostering an inclusive work environment for our more than 2 million associates around the globe,” a Wal-Mart spokesman told MarketWatch. It’s good publicity for a company that has frequently clashed with labor unions over pay and conditions and, in October, raised salaries for entry-level managers above the new overtime threshold.

Mike Gregoire, chief executive officer of N.Y.-based CA Technologies (CA, US) , another company that received a 100% score, said its progressive policies are not only helpful for its company culture, but also for its bottom line. “We cultivate a diverse workplace because we know that a variety of perspectives and individual experiences informs our products and services, while making our entire organization more creative and collaborative,” he said.

Also see:10 best companies to work for in the U.S., according to employees

Your baby monitor may have contributed to last week’s massive internet hack

Here’s how much money Kim Kardashian is losing by staying off social media

Document MRKWC00020161209ecc9002e5

Wal-Mart faces more damages in wage case.(Law)

Friedman, Mark 
820 words
5 December 2016
Arkansas Business
ARK
27
ISSN: 1053-6582; Volume 33; Issue 49
English
Copyright 2016 Gale Group. All rights reserved. 

A federal jury in San Francisco last month awarded truck drivers for Wal-Mart Stores Inc. more than $54 million in damages because the retailer didn't properly pay them for time worked.

U.S. District Judge Susan lllston could add $80 million to the award as punishment because Wal-Mart's actions were considered intentional, which could make it the highest judgment in California this year, said one of the plaintiffs' attorneys, Nicholas " Butch" Wagner of Wagner Jones Kopf man & Artenian LLP of Fresno, California.

Illston is expected to decide the damage amount by the end of the year, Wagner said. Wagner said he also will ask for attorney's fees and costs for the case, which was filed in 2008.

The lawsuit involved Wal-Mart's truck drivers in California, who weren't paid for tasks involving pre- and post-trip inspections of the trucks, which each take about 15 minutes, Wagner said. The claim period is between 2005 and 2015 and covers 839 truck drivers.

Wal-Mart used a "piece rate" to pay its drivers, which meant they were paid per mile instead of per hour and were paid for certain activities such as dropping off a trailer, he said. Wagner said that as a result the drivers also weren't paid for their 10-minute break that is required after four hours of work.

In addition, the drivers weren't properly paid for layovers that they were required to take. For every 11 hours a truck driver drives in a day or 14 hours worked during a day, drivers are forced to take a 10-hour break.

"In other words, they can't drive or they aren't supposed to be doing any work during that 10 hours," Wagner said. "Normally, you don't have to pay a driver anything for a layover unless you control them during the layover."

Wagner said Wal-Mart controlled the drivers during that layover.

Wal-Mart had been paying the truckers $42 for the layover, "and Wal-Mart claimed this was just an inconvenience fee, ... which is not real believable coming from Wal-Mart," he said. Wal-Mart said in its court filings that the drivers weren't under its control during the layover.

The plaintiffs' attorneys showed that during the layover, the truckers were actually under the control of Wal-Mart and should have been paid at least minimum wage.

"So even though these guys during their layover could grab dinner or go watch a movie,... they were pretty much tethered to their trucks," Wagner said. "So the judge and jury found that was control, and as a result, they were under the control of Wal-Mart."

In an email statement to Arkansas Business, Wal-Mart spokesman Randy Hargrove said the company doesn't believe the facts support the decision in the case.

Fie said the drivers are "among the highest paid in the industry, earning from approximately $80,000 to over $100,000 per year."

Wagner said that most of the drivers, however, work about 70 hours a week.

Hargrove said that Wal-Mart believes "that our truck drivers are paid in compliance with California law and often in excess of what California law requires. Walmart is a great place to work, as demonstrated by the fact that more than 90 percent of our drivers have been with the company for more than 10 years."

Wal-Mart's attorneys will be filing post-trial motions and are likely to appeal the judgment to the 9 th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, based in San Francisco, Hargrove said.

But having the judgment reversed at the 9th Circuit could be a long shot, said W illiam B. Gould, an emeritus professor at Stanford Law School who specializes in labor and employment law and was familiar with the case.

For the plaintiffs this is "something akin to a slam dunk," said Gould, who was chairman of the National Labor Relations Board during the Clinton administration. "The facts are fairly straightforward."

He said that even though Wal-Mart maintained that the truck drivers could read or sleep during the layover, that wasn't the issue.

"The critical factor is are you under the employer's control? Can you do something else on your own?" Gould said. "And that's what the takeaway has to be, that you better make sure that any time they're under your control, ... that you actually pay for the time involved."

Gould also said it was puzzling that Wal-Mart decided to take the case to a jury rather than settling with the class. He said the law involving the issues had been decided in California. "It's like someone saying that they didn't know it was discriminatory to discriminate on the basis of race," he said.

Mark Friedman MFriedman(a)ABPG.com

Caption: Butch Wagner

Document ARK0000020161229ecc50001p



Walmart settles same-sex spouse benefits    discrimination  suit

157 words
5 December 2016
Chain Store Age
CHSA
English
© 2016, Lebhar-Friedman, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Walmart has agreement to a settlement in a lawsuit that accused the retailer of discrimination against gay employees who were unable to get healthcare coverage for their same-sex spouses.

Under the terms of the proposed agreement, the discounter will set aside $7.5 million to compensate the employees affected by the denial of spousal benefits from 2011 to 2014. (Walmart changed its policy to include same-sex spouses on Jan. 1, 2014, shortly after the Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage.)

The company said the settlement includes "no more than a few thousand current and former Walmart associates."

“We're happy both sides could come together to reach a resolution,” Sally Welborn, senior VP of global benefits, Walmart, said in a statement. “We will continue to not distinguish between same- and opposite-sex spouses when it comes to the benefits we offer under our health insurance plan.”

Read more...

Document CHSA000020161205ecc500005



Business
Wal-Mart Reaches $7.5 Million Settlement in Same-Sex Spouse Benefits Complaint; An estimated 1,100 workers may be eligible to be compensated

By Maria Armental 
393 words
5 December 2016
12:36 PM
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
English
Copyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. reached a tentative agreement to settle a class-action complaint that accused the retailer of discriminating against gay employees and their spouses by denying them health benefits.

Under the terms of the settlement, filed Friday in Massachusetts federal court, Wal-Mart would pay $7.5 million to settle the case.

The agreement, which is subject to court approval, would apply to current and former Wal-Mart employees who work or worked for Wal-Mart in the U.S. or Puerto Rico from Jan. 1, 2011, through Dec. 31, 2013, and were legally married to a same-sex spouse during that period.

An estimated 1,100 workers may be eligible to be compensated, according to court documents. Wal-Mart employs nearly 1.5 million associates in the U.S. and Puerto Rico.

Arkansas-based Wal-Martextended health benefits to domestic partners of U.S. workers, regardless of sexual orientation, starting in January 2014.

Until that time, Wal-Mart had only offered benefits to the domestic partners of employees in states that required the retailer to do so by law.

The complaint was filed last year in Massachusetts federal court by Jacqueline A. Cote, an office associate at a Wal-Mart store in Massachusetts who married Diana Smithson, also a Wal-Mart employee, in 2004. Ms. Smithson, who left Wal-Mart in 2008 to care for Ms. Cote's ailing mother, was diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 2012.

Wal-Mart denied spousal health benefits to Ms. Smithson, and the couple spent more than $150,000 to treat Ms. Smithson.

Ms. Cote argued Wal-Mart's old policy had discriminated against gay workers and their spouses under the federal law that prohibits employment discrimination based on sex, religion, race and national origin.

On Friday, Ms. Cote said in a prepared statement: "It's a relief to bring this chapter of my life to a close."

"Respect for the individual, diversity and inclusion are among the core values that made Wal-Mart into the company that it is today," said Sally Welborn, Wal-Mart's senior vice president for global benefits, in a statement.

Write to Maria Armental at maria.armental@wsj.com

Document WSJO000020161203ecc30018h



money
Walmart agrees to $7.5 million settlement in same-sex benefits lawsuit

Sean Rossman; Sean Rossman 
485 words
3 December 2016
USA Today Online
USATONL
English
Copyright © 2016 USA Today Online. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights reserved. 

Walmart is poised to pay millions of dollars to thousands of former and current employees after it agreed to settle a lawsuit claiming the company denied health insurance to same-sex spouses.

The retail giant, which denies the claims, OK'd the $7. 5 million settlement, which would resolve a 2015 class action lawsuit brought by a former employee. The settlement, which awaits court approval, was filed Friday in U. S. District Court in Massachusetts.

The proposed settlement says the $7. 5 million would cover claims of those employees who weren't able to obtain coverage for their same-sex spouse from 2011 to 2013. The company said the settlement includes "no more than a few thousand current and former Walmart associates. "

Massachusetts woman Jacqueline A. Cote filed the lawsuit after she was repeatedly denied coverage for her wife.

Court documents said Walmart's insurance policy previously limited eligibility to spouses of the opposite sex until 2014, when it changed its policy to include same-sex spouses. In 2015, the U. S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ruled Walmartdiscriminated against Cote because of her sex.

Cote's lawsuit claimed Walmart violated the Civil Rights Act, the Equal Pay Act and the

p. p1 {margin: 0. 0px 0. 0px 0. 0px 0. 0px; font: 12. 0px Times}

Massachusetts Fair Employment Practices Law.

In the proposed settlement, Walmart denies all the allegations brought forth in the lawsuit, but chose to settle, "in the interest of resolving this dispute between the parties without the significant expense, delay and inconvenience of further litigation. "

The $7. 5 million, according to the settlement, will first cover legal expenses then be divvied up among the employees involved in the suit. The settlement, court documents said, could cover all of a member's claims. It's estimated most have "potential damages ranging from hundreds of dollars to $15,000 for the value of the health insurance benefits that they were denied. "

In addition to the payout, Walmart agrees "that in the future it will continue to treat same-sex and opposite-sex spouses equally in the provision of health insurance benefits. "

The two sides issued a joint news release Friday. Sally Welborn, senior vice president of global benefits for Walmart, said the company is happy the case is resolved.

"Respect for the individual, diversity and inclusion are among the core values that made Walmart into the company that it is today," she said. "We will continue to not distinguish between same and opposite-sex spouses when it comes to the benefits we offer under our health insurance plan. "

Cote said she was pleased Walmart could settle the issue for her and other Walmart employees.

"It's a relief to bring this chapter of my life to a close," she said.

Follow Sean Rossman on Twitter: @seanrossman

Document USATONL020161204ecc30000s



News
Walmart will pay out $7.5 MILLION for class-action lawsuit that says the company denied gay couples the same benefits it offered straight spouses

KALHAN ROSENBLATT FOR DAILYMAIL.COM 
481 words
2 December 2016
10:31 PM
Mail Online
DAMONL
English
Copyright 2016 

* Walmart has agreed to pay out $7.5 million to settle discrimination lawsuit

* Class-action suit was brought forth by former employee Jacqueline Cote

* Cote filed on behalf of same-sex couples who were denied health benefits

* Walmart said it expects a few thousand people will be eligible for payout

* Company revised its policy after Supreme Court legalized gay marriage

Walmart has agreed to pay out millions of dollars after a class-action lawsuit claimed the superstore denied spousal health insurance benefits to couples in same-sex marriages between 2011 and 2013.

The company agreed to the payout on Friday to settle the suit brought forward by Jacqueline Cote in July 2015.

Cote filed the lawsuit on behalf of other employees of Walmart who were also in same-sex marriages and denied the benefits, CNN Money reported.

Walmart says it only expects a few thousand people to be eligible for a payout from the settlement.

The company and Cote settled under tentative terms in a federal court in Massachusetts on Friday.

If a judge approves the filing, people who were employed by Walmart between 2011 to 2013 and in legal same-sex unions will be able to receive a payout.

However, it is unknown how many current and former Walmart employees will be affected by the $7.5 million settlement.

It is estimated it could be able 1,100, according to the Wall Street Journal.

Diana Smithson, who is married to Cote, was also a Walmart employee when she left the company to care for Cote's ill mother.

During that time, Smithson was diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 2012.

The couple spent more than $150,000 on treatment after Smithson was denied coverage under Cote's plan.

Cote argued that the policy discriminated against gay employees, which federal law prohibits based on sex, religion, race and national origin.

On Friday, Cote expressed she was happy the case was settled.

In a statement she said: 'I'm pleased that Walmart was willing to resolve this issue for me and other associates who are married to someone of the same sex.

'It's a relief to bring this chapter of my life to a close.'

Walmart's senior vice president of Global Benefits Sally Welborn also said she was happy the company and current and former employees could reach an agreement.

'We're happy both sides could come together to reach a resolution,' she said.

The company began offering benefits to same sex couples in 2014.

Before that, it only offered benefits in states that legally required it to do so for people in same-sex domestic partnerships.

Walmart employs approximately 1.5 million people in the U.S. and Puerto Rico

Document DAMONL0020161203ecc30028m



Financial Post
Wal-mart settles gay bias suit

Bloomberg 
164 words
3 December 2016
Vancouver Sun
VNCS
Final
B11
English
Copyright © 2016 Vancouver Sun 

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. agreed to pay US$7.5 million to settle a U.S. lawsuit accusing the company of discriminating against gay workers by failing to offer health insurance benefits to their spouses. The settlement covers employees who were affected by Wal-Mart's conduct from January 2011 to December 2013, according to documents filed Friday in Boston federal court. A few thousand current and former workers were affected, Wal-Mart said in a statement without providing an exact number.

The company employs 1.5 million people in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. The suit was filed in July 2015, just weeks after the U.S. Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage nationwide. Wal-Mart employee Jacqueline Cote argued the company failed to provide health insurance to her wife for years in violation of the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964 and a Massachusetts fair-employment law.

/      [VASN_20161203_Final_B11_01_I001.jpg]; 

Document VNCS000020161203ecc30000s



Financial Post
Wal-mart settles gay bias suit

Ottawa Citizen 
166 words
3 December 2016
Ottawa Citizen
OTCT
Early
C5
English
Copyright © 2016 Ottawa Citizen 

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. agreed to pay US$7.5 million to settle a U.S. lawsuit accusing the company of discriminating against gay workers by failing to offer health insurance benefits to their spouses. The settlement covers employees who were affected by Wal-Mart's conduct from January 2011 to December 2013, according to documents filed Friday in Boston federal court. A few thousand current and former workers were affected, Wal-Mart said in a statement without providing an exact number.

The company employs 1.5 million people in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. The suit was filed in July 2015, just weeks after the U.S. Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage nationwide. Wal-Mart employee Jacqueline Cote argued the company failed to provide health insurance to her wife for years in violation of the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964 and a Massachusetts fair-employment law. Bloomberg

/      [OTCT_20161203_Early_C5_01_I001.jpg]; 

Document OTCT000020161203ecc30001t



Financial Post
Wal-mart settles gay bias suit

Bloomberg 
164 words
3 December 2016
Edmonton Journal
EDJR
Early
N7
English
Copyright © 2016 Edmonton Journal 

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. agreed to pay US$7.5 million to settle a U.S. lawsuit accusing the company of discriminating against gay workers by failing to offer health insurance benefits to their spouses. The settlement covers employees who were affected by Wal-Mart's conduct from January 2011 to December 2013, according to documents filed Friday in Boston federal court. A few thousand current and former workers were affected, Wal-Mart said in a statement without providing an exact number.

The company employs 1.5 million people in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. The suit was filed in July 2015, just weeks after the U.S. Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage nationwide. Wal-Mart employee Jacqueline Cote argued the company failed to provide health insurance to her wife for years in violation of the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964 and a Massachusetts fair-employment law.

/      [EDJN_20161203_Early_N7_01_I001.jpg]; 

Document EDJR000020161203ecc300030



Financial Post
Wal-mart settles gay bias suit

The Windsor Star 
167 words
3 December 2016
Windsor Star
WINSTR
Early
N6
English
Copyright © 2016 Windsor Star 

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. agreed to pay US$7.5 million to settle a U.S. lawsuit accusing the company of discriminating against gay workers by failing to offer health insurance benefits to their spouses. The settlement covers employees who were affected by Wal-Mart's conduct from January 2011 to December 2013, according to documents filed Friday in Boston federal court. A few thousand current and former workers were affected, Wal-Mart said in a statement without providing an exact number.

The company employs 1.5 million people in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. The suit was filed in July 2015, just weeks after the U.S. Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage nationwide. Wal-Mart employee Jacqueline Cote argued the company failed to provide health insurance to her wife for years in violation of the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964 and a Massachusetts fair-employment law. Bloomberg

/      [WIST_20161203_Early_N6_01_I001.jpg]; 

Document WINSTR0020161203ecc30003j



Wal-Mart Reaches $7.5 Million Settlement in Same-Sex Spouse Benefits Complaint

By Maria Armental 
394 words
2 December 2016
08:33 PM
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. reached a tentative agreement to settle a class-action complaint that accused the retailer of discriminating against gay employees and their spouses by denying them health benefits.

Under the terms of the settlement, filed Friday in Massachusetts federal court, Wal-Mart would pay $7.5 million to settle the case.

The agreement, which is subject to court approval, would apply to current and former Wal-Mart employees who work or worked for Wal-Mart in the U.S. or Puerto Rico from Jan. 1, 2011, through Dec. 31, 2013, and were legally married to a same-sex spouse during that period.

An estimated 1,100 workers may be eligible to be compensated, according to court documents. Wal-Mart employs nearly 1.5 million associates in the U.S. and Puerto Rico.

Arkansas-based Wal-Mart extended health benefits to domestic partners of U.S. workers, regardless of sexual orientation, starting in January 2014.

Until that time, Wal-Mart had only offered benefits to the domestic partners of employees in states that required the retailer to do so by law.

The complaint was filed last year in Massachusetts federal court by Jacqueline A. Cote, an office associate at a Wal-Mart store in Massachusetts who married Diana Smithson, also a Wal-Mart employee, in 2004. Ms. Smithson, who left Wal-Mart in 2008 to care for Ms. Cote's ailing mother, was diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 2012.

Wal-Mart denied spousal health benefits to Ms. Smithson, and the couple spent more than $150,000 to treat Ms. Smithson.

Ms. Cote argued Wal-Mart's old policy had discriminated against gay workers and their spouses under the federal law that prohibits employment discrimination based on sex, religion, race and national origin.

On Friday, Ms. Cote said in a prepared statement: "It's a relief to bring this chapter of my life to a close."

"Respect for the individual, diversity and inclusion are among the core values that made Wal-Mart into the company that it is today," said Sally Welborn, Wal-Mart's senior vice president for global benefits, in a statement.

Write to Maria Armental at maria.armental@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 02, 2016 21:33 ET (02:33 GMT)

Document DJDN000020161203ecc30001g



Wal-Mart Reaches $7.5 Million Settlement in Same-Sex Spouse Benefits Complaint

By Maria Armental 
394 words
2 December 2016
08:18 PM
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. reached a tentative agreement to settle a class-action complaint that accused the retailer of discriminating against gay employees and their spouses by denying them health benefits.

Under the terms of the settlement, filed Friday in Massachusetts federal court, Wal-Mart would pay $7.5 million to settle the case.

The agreement, which is subject to court approval, would apply to current and former Wal-Mart employees who work or worked for Wal-Mart in the U.S. or Puerto Rico from Jan. 1, 2011, through Dec. 31, 2013, and were legally married to a same-sex spouse during that period.

An estimated 1,100 workers may be eligible to be compensated, according to court documents. Wal-Mart employs nearly 1.5 million associates in the U.S. and Puerto Rico.

Arkansas-based Wal-Mart extended health benefits to domestic partners of U.S. workers, regardless of sexual orientation, starting in January 2014.

Until that time, Wal-Mart had only offered benefits to the domestic partners of employees in states that required the retailer to do so by law.

The complaint was filed last year in Massachusetts federal court by Jacqueline A. Cote, an office associate at a Wal-Mart store in Massachusetts who married Diana Smithson, also a Wal-Mart employee, in 2004. Ms. Smithson, who left Wal-Mart in 2008 to care for Ms. Cote's ailing mother, was diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 2012.

Wal-Mart denied spousal health benefits to Ms. Smithson, and the couple spent more than $150,000 to treat Ms. Smithson.

Ms. Cote argued Wal-Mart's old policy had discriminated against gay workers and their spouses under the federal law that prohibits employment discrimination based on sex, religion, race and national origin.

On Friday, Ms. Cote said in a prepared statement: "It's a relief to bring this chapter of my life to a close."

"Respect for the individual, diversity and inclusion are among the core values that made Wal-Mart into the company that it is today," said Sally Welborn, Wal-Mart's senior vice president for global benefits, in a statement.

Write to Maria Armental at maria.armental@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 02, 2016 21:18 ET (02:18 GMT)

Document DJDN000020161203ecc300041



Walmart agrees to $7.5 million settlement in    discrimination  suit

By Shannon Gupta 
215 words
2 December 2016
07:16 PM
CNN Wire
CNNWR
English
Copyright 2016 Cable News Network. All Rights Reserved. 

NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- Walmart has agreed to pay $7.5 million to settle a suit that alleged the chain discriminated against gay employees.

The class-action suit, which was announced Friday, claimed that Walmart denied spousal health insurance benefits to same-sex employees between 2011 and 2013. Jacqueline Cote filed the complaint in July 2015 on behalf of other Walmart employees whose same-sex spouses were also denied health insurance.

It was not immediately known how many current and former Walmart employees would be affected by the settlement.

Walmart said it expects "no more than a few thousand" people to be eligible for the settlement.

Cote said she's happy the case has been settled.

"I'm pleased that Walmart was willing to resolve this issue for me and other associates who are married to someone of the same sex," Cote said in a statement. "It's a relief to bring this chapter of my life to a close."

Sally Welborn, Walmart's senior vice president of Global Benefits, said, "We're happy both sides could come together to reach a resolution."

Walmart began offering insurance benefits to same-sex couples at the start of 2014 after the Supreme Court legalized gay marriage.

Document CNNWR00020161203ecc3000rt



Walmart settles in same-sex lawsuit

By Shannon Gupta 
211 words
2 December 2016
07:14 PM
CNN Wire
CNNWR
English
Copyright 2016 Cable News Network. All Rights Reserved. 

NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- Walmart has agreed to pay $7.5 million to settle a suit that alleged the chain discriminated against gay employees.

The class-action suit, which was announced Friday, claimed that Walmart denied spousal health insurance benefits to same-sex employees between 2011 and 2013. Jacqueline Cote filed the complaint in July 2015 on behalf of other Walmart employees whose same-sex spouses were also denied health insurance.

It was not immediately known how many current and former Walmart employees would be affected by the settlement.

Walmart said it expects "no more than a few thousand" people to be eligible for the settlement.

Cote said she's happy the case has been settled.

"I'm pleased that Walmart was willing to resolve this issue for me and other associates who are married to someone of the same sex," Cote said in a statement. "It's a relief to bring this chapter of my life to a close."

Sally Welborn, Walmart's senior vice president of Global Benefits, said, "We're happy both sides could come together to reach a resolution."

Walmart began offering insurance benefits to same-sex couples at the start of 2014 after the Supreme Court legalized gay marriage.

Document CNNWR00020161203ecc3000p1



Walmart agrees to $7.5 million settlement in same-sex    discrimination  suit

By Shannon Gupta 
217 words
2 December 2016
06:54 PM
CNN Wire
CNNWR
English
Copyright 2016 Cable News Network. All Rights Reserved. 

NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- Walmart has agreed to pay $7.5 million to settle a suit that alleged the chain discriminated against gay employees.

The class-action suit, which was announced Friday, claimed that Walmart denied spousal health insurance benefits to same-sex employees between 2011 and 2013. Jacqueline Cote filed the complaint in July 2015 on behalf of other Walmart employees whose same-sex spouses were also denied health insurance.

It was not immediately known how many current and former Walmart employees would be affected by the settlement.

Walmart said it expects "no more than a few thousand" people to be eligible for the settlement.

Cote said she's happy the case has been settled.

"I'm pleased that Walmart was willing to resolve this issue for me and other associates who are married to someone of the same sex," Cote said in a statement. "It's a relief to bring this chapter of my life to a close."

Sally Welborn, Walmart's senior vice president of Global Benefits, said, "We're happy both sides could come together to reach a resolution."

Walmart began offering insurance benefits to same-sex couples at the start of 2014 after the Supreme Court legalized gay marriage.

Document CNNWR00020161203ecc3000dx



Retail - Business
Wal-Mart Says Settlement Points To Diversity And Inclusion

Sharon Edelson 
539 words
2 December 2016
WWD
WWD
English
© 2016 Fairchild Publishing, LLC, a subsidiary of Penske Business Media. All rights reserved. 

Wal-Mart said Friday that it had settled a lawsuit that accused the company of discriminating against gay and lesbian employees when it denied health insurance benefits to same-sex spouses.

A motion filed Friday by Jacqueline Cote, a former Wal-Mart associate and the lead plaintiff, and her lawyers, asked the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts for approval of a class action settlement in Cote’s action. More than 1,000 people may be eligible.

Under the proposed settlement, Wal-Mart will set aside $7.5 million to compensate associates who were unable to obtain health insurance coverage for their legal same-sex spouses, as well as the costs of administering the settlement and legal fees.

Under the proposed settlement, Wal-Mart will set aside $7.5 million to pay for claims by the retailer’s associates in the U.S. and Puerto Rico who were unable to obtain health insurance coverage for their same-sex spouses from Wal-Mart from Jan. 1, 2011 to Dec. 31, 2013, as well as the costs of administering the settlement and legal fees and expenses. In 2014, Wal-Mart voluntarily made the same health insurance benefits available to same-sex spouses of its associates that it offered to opposite-sex spouses. As part of the proposed settlement, Wal-Mart commits to continuing to do so in the future.

The agreement signals that legal doctrine on discrimination against gays and lesbian is changing; discrimination against those groups will be considered a form of sex discrimination. Since federal civil rights laws prohibit sex discrimination, such a doctrine could make it easier for gay and lesbian plaintiffs to prevail in court.

In their motion for preliminary approval of the settlement, lawyers for Cote argued that she was discriminated against because she was married to a woman. Cole and her attorneys also said that Wal-Martdiscriminated against her because she doesn’t conform to the stereotype that women should only marry men.

Wal-Mart didn’t endorse a particular legal theory as part of the settlement and it didn’t move to dismiss the case on grounds that the arguments were flawed.

Sally Welborn, senior vice president of global benefits at Wal-Mart, said, “We’re happy both sides could come together to reach a resolution. Respect for the individual, diversity and inclusion are among the core values that made Wal-Mart into the company that it is today. We will continue to not distinguish between same and opposite sex spouses when it comes to the benefits we offer under our health insurance plan.”

“I’m pleased that Wal-Mart was willing to resolve this issue for me and other associates who are married to someone of the same sex,” Cote said. “It’s a relief to bring this chapter of my life to a close.”

Cote was represented by LGBTQ Legal Advocates and Defenders, Outten & Golden LLP, the Washington Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights and Urban Affairs, and Arnold & Porter LLP.

Jonathan Smith, the Washington Lawyers’ Committee’s executive director, said, “We believe the proposed settlement is fair and reasonable and are pleased we could announce it today.”

Document WWD0000020161203ecc20002t



Wal-Mart to settle U.S. lawsuit over benefits for same-sex spouses

373 words
2 December 2016
04:57 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 

Dec 2 (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc on Friday said it would pay $7.5 million to settle a U.S. lawsuit claiming it discriminated against gay employees nationwide by denying health benefits to their spouses.

Wal-Mart and lawyers for Jacqueline Cote, the worker who filed the 2015 lawsuit in federal court in Boston, said in a court filing that the money may be split among more than 1,000 people who were denied spousal benefits between 2011 and 2014, when Wal-Mart changed its policy.

The settlement must be approved by a federal judge.

Sally Welborn, a senior vice president at Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, said in a statement that diversity and inclusion were among the company's core values.

"We will continue to not distinguish between same and opposite sex spouses when it comes to the benefits we offer under our health insurance plan," she said.

Wal-Mart, the largest private U.S. employer, began offering health insurance benefits to same-sex spouses in 2014, a year after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down a provision of the federal Defense of Marriage Act that denied benefits to married gay couples.

Cote, who has worked at Wal-Mart stores in Maine and Massachusetts since 1999, said in the lawsuit that her wife, Diana Smithson, developed cancer in 2012 and Wal-Mart's denial of insurance coverage led to more than $150,000 in medical debt. Smithson died in March.

Cote in a statement on Friday said she was pleased with the settlement.

"It's a relief to bring this chapter of my life to a close," she said.

Federal employment discrimination laws do not explicitly provide protections for gay workers. But LGBT groups and the Obama administration have aggressively pushed the argument that bias against gay people is a form of sex discrimination, and three federal appeals courts are currently considering that claim.

The case is Jacqueline Cote v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc, U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, No. 15-cv-12945. (Reporting by Daniel Wiessner in Albany, New York, Editing by Alexia Garamfalvi and Lisa Shumaker) 

Released: 2016-12-2T23:57:33.000Z 

Document LBA0000020161202ecc2019al



Wal-Mart to settle U.S. lawsuit over benefits for same-sex spouses

371 words
2 December 2016
05:06 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 

(Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc on Friday said it would pay $7.5 million to settle a U.S. lawsuit claiming it discriminated against gay employees nationwide by denying health benefits to their spouses.

Wal-Mart and lawyers for Jacqueline Cote, the worker who filed the 2015 lawsuit in federal court in Boston, said in a court filing that the money may be split among more than 1,000 people who were denied spousal benefits between 2011 and 2014, when Wal-Mart changed its policy.

The settlement must be approved by a federal judge.

Sally Welborn, a senior vice president at Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, said in a statement that diversity and inclusion were among the company's core values.

"We will continue to not distinguish between same and opposite sex spouses when it comes to the benefits we offer under our health insurance plan," she said.

Wal-Mart, the largest private U.S. employer, began offering health insurance benefits to same-sex spouses in 2014, a year after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down a provision of the federal Defense of Marriage Act that denied benefits to married gay couples.

Cote, who has worked at Wal-Mart stores in Maine and Massachusetts since 1999, said in the lawsuit that her wife, Diana Smithson, developed cancer in 2012 and Wal-Mart's denial of insurance coverage led to more than $150,000 in medical debt. Smithson died in March.

Cote in a statement on Friday said she was pleased with the settlement.

"It's a relief to bring this chapter of my life to a close," she said.

Federal employment discrimination laws do not explicitly provide protections for gay workers. But LGBT groups and the Obama administration have aggressively pushed the argument that bias against gay people is a form of sex discrimination, and three federal appeals courts are currently considering that claim.

The case is Jacqueline Cote v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc, U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, No. 15-cv-12945.

(Reporting by Daniel Wiessner in Albany, New York, Editing by Alexia Garamfalvi and Lisa Shumaker) 

Released: 2016-12-2T23:06:54.000Z 

Document LBA0000020161202ecc2019lp



Jacqueline Cote and Walmart Announce Class Settlement Over Health Insurance Benefits for Same-Sex Spouses of Walmart Associates

758 words
2 December 2016
04:06 PM
PR Newswire
PRN
English
Copyright ©    2016    PR Newswire Association LLC.    All Rights Reserved. 

BOSTON, Dec. 2, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- Former Walmart associate Jacqueline Cote and her lawyers filed a motion today asking the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts to grant preliminary approval of a class action settlement in Cote's action that challenged Walmart's lack of health insurance benefits for same-sex spouses of Walmart associates prior to 2014.

The case is known as Jacqueline Cote v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., No. 15-cv-12945-WGY (D. Mass.).

The $7.5 million proposed settlement would pay for claims by Walmart associates in the United States and Puerto Rico that they were unable to obtain health insurance coverage for their same-sex spouses from Walmart from Jan. 1, 2011 to Dec. 31, 2013, as well as the costs of administering the settlement and legal fees and expenses. In 2014, Walmart voluntarily made the same health insurance benefits available to same-sex spouses of its associates that it offered to opposite-sex spouses. As part of the proposed settlement, Walmart commits to continuing to do so in the future.

The proposed settlement class is expected to include no more than a few thousand current and former Walmart associates. Walmart employs nearly 1.5 million associates in the U.S. and Puerto Rico.

Sally Welborn, Senior Vice President, Global Benefits for Walmart, said, "We're happy both sides could come together to reach a resolution. Respect for the individual, diversity and inclusion are among the core values that made Walmart into the company that it is today. We will continue to not distinguish between same and opposite sex spouses when it comes to the benefits we offer under our health insurance plan."

Cote said, "I'm pleased that Walmart was willing to resolve this issue for me and other associates who are married to someone of the same sex. It's a relief to bring this chapter of my life to a close."

Cote is represented by GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders (GLAD), Outten & Golden LLP, the Washington Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights & Urban Affairs (WLC), and Arnold & Porter LLP.

Janson Wu, GLAD's Executive Director, said, "This is an important settlement for LGBTQ workers."

Juno Turner, a Partner at Outten & Golden LLP, said, "We are pleased that class members will have the opportunity to receive compensation."

Peter Romer-Friedman, a Counsel at Outten & Golden LLP, said, "We are glad that as part of the settlement Walmart will continue to provide the same health insurance benefits regardless of the gender of the associate's spouse."

Jonathan Smith, the WLC's Executive Director, said, "We believe the proposed settlement is fair and reasonable and are pleased we could announce it today. We are pleased to have worked with our colleagues at GLAD, Outten & Golden, and Arnold & Porter to achieve this settlement."

Contacts for Plaintiff and her attorneys: Gary Buseck and Allison Wright, GLAD, (617) 426-1350; Juno Turner and Peter Romer-Friedman, Outten & Golden, (212) 245-1000; Matthew Handley, Washington Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights & Urban Affairs (202) 319-1000

Contact for Walmart: Randy Hargrove, (800) 331-0085.

Media contacts for Plaintiff: Carisa Cunningham, GLAD, (617) 426-1350; Georgia Willett, Outten & Golden, (212) 245-1000; Erin Powers, Powers MediaWorks LLC for Outten & Golden, (281) 703-6000.

About GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders (GLAD)

Through strategic litigation, public policy advocacy, and education, GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders works in New England and nationally to create a just society free of discrimination based on gender identity and expression, HIV status, and sexual orientation.

About Outten & Golden LLP

Outten & Golden LLP, a 50-plus attorney law firm, represents employees in individual and class action litigation challenging employment discrimination, wage theft, and other workplace injustices. As advocates for workplace fairness, our passion and profession is to help advance the goals of employees and protect their rights against injustices.

About the Washington Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights & Urban Affairs

For more than 45 years, the Washington Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights & Urban Affairs has handled thousands of cases representing individuals and groups seeking to vindicate their civil rights in the areas of employment, housing, public accommodations and other aspects of urban life.

To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/jacqueline-cote-and-walmart-announce-class-settlement-over-health-insurance-benefits-for-same-sex-spouses-of-walmart-associates-300372371.html

SOURCE Outten & Golden LLP; GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders

/Web site: http://www.glad.org/

(END)

Document PRN0000020161202ecc2000h1

Briefcase

418 words
24 November 2016
Portland Press Herald
PTPH
3.C
English
© 2016 Portland Press Herald. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved. 

Mortgage rates continue their post-election rise

Long-term U.S. mortgage rates continued to surge this week in the aftermath of Donald Trump's election win.

Mortgage giant Freddie Mac said Wednesday that the average rate on a 30-year fixed rate loan shot up to 4.03 percent, the highest since July 2015 and up from 3.94 percent a week earlier. The rate on 15-year home loans climbed to 3.25 percent, up from 3.14 percent last week and highest since January.

Long-term U.S. interest rates have climbed since Trump was elected.

Twitter founder has his account suspended

Twitter CEO and co-founder Jack Dorsey says the social media platform accidentally suspended his account.

Dorsey tweeted Tuesday night, "just setting up my twttr ... again (account suspension was an internal mistake)." The post was an echo of his first-ever tweet, which came in 2006.

San Francisco-based Twitter suspended the accounts of several prominent members of the so-called "alt-right" in an apparent crackdown on accounts tied to hate speech or threats of violence. Twitter declined comment, but noted its policies against hate speech and harassment.

Experimental Alzheimer's treatment fails in study

An experimental treatment for Alzheimer's failed again in a widely anticipated study, disappointing many who had hoped drugmaker Eli Lilly had finally found a way to slow the progression of the mind-robbing disease.

The drug did not work better than a placebo treatment in a study of more than 2,100 people with mild Alzheimer's, the company announced Wednesday.

With more than 5 million people in the United States afflicted, Alzheimer's is the most common form of dementia. There's no known way to prevent, cure or even slow its progression.

Jury finds Wal-Mart failed to pay drivers

Wal-Mart intentionally failed to pay hundreds of truck drivers in California the minimum wage for duties such as inspecting and washing their vehicles, a federal jury decided Wednesday, awarding the workers more than $54 million in damages and opening up the retail giant to additional penalties.

Seven jurors returned the verdict in a lawsuit that also accused the company of not properly paying drivers for layovers. Wal-Mart argued that truckers are paid for activities that include maintenance tasks and that they are not working during layovers.

A spokesman said Arkansas-based Wal-Mart Stores Inc. is likely to appeal.

- From news service reports

Caption: Mortgage rates continue their post-election rise 

Document PTPH000020161124ecbo00015

current
Chadbourne Asks Judge to Toss Partners' Gender Bias Suit; THE FIRM

by Brian Baxter 
777 words
22 November 2016
Palm Beach Daily Business Review
PBDBR
A5
Volume 63; Issue 32
English
Copyright 2016 LexisNexis, a Division of Reed Elsevier, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Chadbourne & Parke formally asked a New York federal judge to dismiss a high-profile gender bias suit filed against the firm two months ago by litigation partner Kerrie Campbell in Washington, D.C.

In its 25-page filing, Chadbourne's lawyers from Proskauer Rose claim that Campbell and fellow plaintiff and former Chadbourne partner Jaroslawa Zelinsky Johnson lack standing to file a class action suit against the firm under current employment discrimination laws.

Chadbourne cites a Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher brokered victory for retail giant Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in a landmark 2011 U.S. Supreme Court case in arguing that the plaintiffs putative class of 26 current and former female lawyers is too small to warrant class certification. The firm notes that many of those in the putative class are not even U.S. citizens.

As equity partners at Chadbourne, Campbell and Johnson "operate autonomously by setting their own hours of work and determining the manner in which they practice law," according to Chadbourne's motion to dismiss. As such, the firm claims that they are effectively employers, not employees, and thus unable to show a reporting relationship necessary to bring a gender discrimination case. As partners at the firm, Chadbourne argues that Campbell and Johnson had the power to make changes in its operations.

A Chadbourne spokesman said in a statement that the firm's motion makes clear that the case against it should have never been brought.

"The plaintiffs as partners of the firm are its owners, not its employees, and thus are not legally entitled to bring claims against the firm under the employment laws that they are trying to invoke," the firm said. "These are uniquely individual claims, and plaintiffs cannot inflate the group they purport to represent to a level that warrants class action treatment under controlling law. Notwithstanding the fanfare with which this lawsuit was announced by the plaintiffs, the fact is that it is plagued by fundamental legal defects that require it to be dismissed."

Campbell accused Chadbourne of running an "all-male dictatorship" on her Aug. 31 complaint against the New York-based firm, which alleged that Chadbourne routinely paid women partners less and denied them leadership opportunities. Johnson, a former managing partner of Chadbourne's shuttered Kiev office, sought to join Campbell's suit in late October. A week later, Chadbourne filed counterclaims against Campbell, accusing her of failing to live up to her promises after joining the firm as a lateral partner hire in January 2014.

David Sanford, chairman of Sanford Heisler, has faced off before against Chadbourne's Proskauer lawyers in employment discrimination cases. He pilloried Chadbourne's attempt to dismiss his clients' case in a statement provided to The American Lawyer.

"Chadbourne's latest filings are simply another attempt to silence two women who had the courage to speak out against the culture of entrenched sexism and chauvinism at the firm," Sanford said. "We are confident we will defeat Chadbourne's motions and ultimately will vindicate the rights of female attorneys at the firm. Chadbourne may continue its assault on the equal rights of female partners but it should have no doubt that Ms. Campbell and Ms. Johnson will continue their pursuit of justice."

Sanford has said previously that Chadbourne has no arbitration provision in its partnership agreement. The American Lawyer has spoken with three former female partners at Chadbourne in an effort to verify Campbell and Johnson's claims. Two of the three, who requested anonymity in order to speak freely about their former firm, were receptive to allegations made by plaintiffs. A third, while sympathetic, was skeptical that Chadbourne would make decisions on compensation and status at the firm solely on the basis of gender.

In mid-September, a group of 14 current female partners at Chadbourne wrote a public letter to Sanford taking him to task for trying to speak on their behalf about conditions for women lawyers at the firm. While the letter did not directly address the claims in Campbell's complaint, in its court papers Monday, Chadbourne wrote that the group "reject ... [counsel's] claim to represent a class that purportedly includes [them]."

Andrew Giaccia, managing partner of Chadbourne since being elected to the firm's top leadership role in late 2010, also filed an affidavit in the case on Monday. Attached to the affidavit were several exhibits, including a copy of Chadbourne's partnership agreement and a firm memo to all partners dated Dec. 16, 2015, detailing its year-end point setting and bonus process.

Contact Brian Baxter at bbaxter@alm.com. 

Document PBDBR00020161122ecbm0000a

current
Chadbourne Asks Judge to Toss Partners' Gender Bias Suit; THE FIRM

by Brian Baxter 
777 words
22 November 2016
Miami Daily Business Review
MDBR
A5
Volume 91; Issue 113
English
Copyright 2016 LexisNexis, a Division of Reed Elsevier, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Chadbourne & Parke formally asked a New York federal judge to dismiss a high-profile gender bias suit filed against the firm two months ago by litigation partner Kerrie Campbell in Washington, D.C.

In its 25-page filing, Chadbourne's lawyers from Proskauer Rose claim that Campbell and fellow plaintiff and former Chadbourne partner Jaroslawa Zelinsky Johnson lack standing to file a class action suit against the firm under current employment discrimination laws.

Chadbourne cites a Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher brokered victory for retail giant Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in a landmark 2011 U.S. Supreme Court case in arguing that the plaintiffs putative class of 26 current and former female lawyers is too small to warrant class certification. The firm notes that many of those in the putative class are not even U.S. citizens.

As equity partners at Chadbourne, Campbell and Johnson "operate autonomously by setting their own hours of work and determining the manner in which they practice law," according to Chadbourne's motion to dismiss. As such, the firm claims that they are effectively employers, not employees, and thus unable to show a reporting relationship necessary to bring a gender discrimination case. As partners at the firm, Chadbourne argues that Campbell and Johnson had the power to make changes in its operations.

A Chadbourne spokesman said in a statement that the firm's motion makes clear that the case against it should have never been brought.

"The plaintiffs as partners of the firm are its owners, not its employees, and thus are not legally entitled to bring claims against the firm under the employment laws that they are trying to invoke," the firm said. "These are uniquely individual claims, and plaintiffs cannot inflate the group they purport to represent to a level that warrants class action treatment under controlling law. Notwithstanding the fanfare with which this lawsuit was announced by the plaintiffs, the fact is that it is plagued by fundamental legal defects that require it to be dismissed."

Campbell accused Chadbourne of running an "all-male dictatorship" on her Aug. 31 complaint against the New York-based firm, which alleged that Chadbourne routinely paid women partners less and denied them leadership opportunities. Johnson, a former managing partner of Chadbourne's shuttered Kiev office, sought to join Campbell's suit in late October. A week later, Chadbourne filed counterclaims against Campbell, accusing her of failing to live up to her promises after joining the firm as a lateral partner hire in January 2014.

David Sanford, chairman of Sanford Heisler, has faced off before against Chadbourne's Proskauer lawyers in employment discrimination cases. He pilloried Chadbourne's attempt to dismiss his clients' case in a statement provided to The American Lawyer.

"Chadbourne's latest filings are simply another attempt to silence two women who had the courage to speak out against the culture of entrenched sexism and chauvinism at the firm," Sanford said. "We are confident we will defeat Chadbourne's motions and ultimately will vindicate the rights of female attorneys at the firm. Chadbourne may continue its assault on the equal rights of female partners but it should have no doubt that Ms. Campbell and Ms. Johnson will continue their pursuit of justice."

Sanford has said previously that Chadbourne has no arbitration provision in its partnership agreement. The American Lawyer has spoken with three former female partners at Chadbourne in an effort to verify Campbell and Johnson's claims. Two of the three, who requested anonymity in order to speak freely about their former firm, were receptive to allegations made by plaintiffs. A third, while sympathetic, was skeptical that Chadbourne would make decisions on compensation and status at the firm solely on the basis of gender.

In mid-September, a group of 14 current female partners at Chadbourne wrote a public letter to Sanford taking him to task for trying to speak on their behalf about conditions for women lawyers at the firm. While the letter did not directly address the claims in Campbell's complaint, in its court papers Monday, Chadbourne wrote that the group "reject ... [counsel's] claim to represent a class that purportedly includes [them]."

Andrew Giaccia, managing partner of Chadbourne since being elected to the firm's top leadership role in late 2010, also filed an affidavit in the case on Monday. Attached to the affidavit were several exhibits, including a copy of Chadbourne's partnership agreement and a firm memo to all partners dated Dec. 16, 2015, detailing its year-end point setting and bonus process.

Contact Brian Baxter at bbaxter@alm.com. 

Document MDBR000020161122ecbm0000a

current
Chadbourne Asks Judge to Toss Partners' Gender Bias Suit; THE FIRM

by Brian Baxter 
777 words
22 November 2016
Broward Daily Business Review
BDBR
A5
Volume 57; Issue 242
English
Copyright 2016 LexisNexis, a Division of Reed Elsevier, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Chadbourne & Parke formally asked a New York federal judge to dismiss a high-profile gender bias suit filed against the firm two months ago by litigation partner Kerrie Campbell in Washington, D.C.

In its 25-page filing, Chadbourne's lawyers from Proskauer Rose claim that Campbell and fellow plaintiff and former Chadbourne partner Jaroslawa Zelinsky Johnson lack standing to file a class action suit against the firm under current employment discrimination laws.

Chadbourne cites a Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher brokered victory for retail giant Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in a landmark 2011 U.S. Supreme Court case in arguing that the plaintiffs putative class of 26 current and former female lawyers is too small to warrant class certification. The firm notes that many of those in the putative class are not even U.S. citizens.

As equity partners at Chadbourne, Campbell and Johnson "operate autonomously by setting their own hours of work and determining the manner in which they practice law," according to Chadbourne's motion to dismiss. As such, the firm claims that they are effectively employers, not employees, and thus unable to show a reporting relationship necessary to bring a gender discrimination case. As partners at the firm, Chadbourne argues that Campbell and Johnson had the power to make changes in its operations.

A Chadbourne spokesman said in a statement that the firm's motion makes clear that the case against it should have never been brought.

"The plaintiffs as partners of the firm are its owners, not its employees, and thus are not legally entitled to bring claims against the firm under the employment laws that they are trying to invoke," the firm said. "These are uniquely individual claims, and plaintiffs cannot inflate the group they purport to represent to a level that warrants class action treatment under controlling law. Notwithstanding the fanfare with which this lawsuit was announced by the plaintiffs, the fact is that it is plagued by fundamental legal defects that require it to be dismissed."

Campbell accused Chadbourne of running an "all-male dictatorship" on her Aug. 31 complaint against the New York-based firm, which alleged that Chadbourne routinely paid women partners less and denied them leadership opportunities. Johnson, a former managing partner of Chadbourne's shuttered Kiev office, sought to join Campbell's suit in late October. A week later, Chadbourne filed counterclaims against Campbell, accusing her of failing to live up to her promises after joining the firm as a lateral partner hire in January 2014.

David Sanford, chairman of Sanford Heisler, has faced off before against Chadbourne's Proskauer lawyers in employment discrimination cases. He pilloried Chadbourne's attempt to dismiss his clients' case in a statement provided to The American Lawyer.

"Chadbourne's latest filings are simply another attempt to silence two women who had the courage to speak out against the culture of entrenched sexism and chauvinism at the firm," Sanford said. "We are confident we will defeat Chadbourne's motions and ultimately will vindicate the rights of female attorneys at the firm. Chadbourne may continue its assault on the equal rights of female partners but it should have no doubt that Ms. Campbell and Ms. Johnson will continue their pursuit of justice."

Sanford has said previously that Chadbourne has no arbitration provision in its partnership agreement. The American Lawyer has spoken with three former female partners at Chadbourne in an effort to verify Campbell and Johnson's claims. Two of the three, who requested anonymity in order to speak freely about their former firm, were receptive to allegations made by plaintiffs. A third, while sympathetic, was skeptical that Chadbourne would make decisions on compensation and status at the firm solely on the basis of gender.

In mid-September, a group of 14 current female partners at Chadbourne wrote a public letter to Sanford taking him to task for trying to speak on their behalf about conditions for women lawyers at the firm. While the letter did not directly address the claims in Campbell's complaint, in its court papers Monday, Chadbourne wrote that the group "reject ... [counsel's] claim to represent a class that purportedly includes [them]."

Andrew Giaccia, managing partner of Chadbourne since being elected to the firm's top leadership role in late 2010, also filed an affidavit in the case on Monday. Attached to the affidavit were several exhibits, including a copy of Chadbourne's partnership agreement and a firm memo to all partners dated Dec. 16, 2015, detailing its year-end point setting and bonus process.

Contact Brian Baxter at bbaxter@alm.com. 

Document BDBR000020161122ecbm0000a



DIARY FOR THURSDAY NOVEMBER 17

1,795 words
16 November 2016
09:57 AM
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
English
(c)2016, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved 

Here is the provisional news diary for Thursday November 17.

CITY: Interims: Investec, Johnson Matthey , Majestic Wine , Norcros, Qinetiq, Royal Mail , WS Atkins . Trading updates: Asda, Close Brothers , Premier Oil , Safestore.

MOROCCO: UN climate talks taking place in Marrakech, Morocco.

BIRMINGHAM: Association of Colleges annual conference. With speeches on November 17 by Justine Greening and Robert Halfon. International Conference Centre, Birmingham. AoC press office: 020 7034 9974.

LONDON: High Court judges discrimination tribunal against new pension scheme. Sir Nicholas Mostyn, 59, Sir Roderick Newton, 58, Sir Philip Moor, 57, Dame Lucy Theis, 55, Sir Richard Arnold, 55, and Sir Rabinder Singh, 52, allege they are being discriminated against on the basis of age after the introduction of a new, less favourable, pension scheme. Expected to hear from government employees before examinations wrap up on Thursday, with closing submissions to follow. Central London employment tribunal, Ground Floor, Victory House, 30-34 Kingsway, London, WC2B 6EX.

LONDON: Boris Johnson to meet Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. FCO 02070083100.

LONDON: Couple sentenced for funding terrorism. Mohammed Iqbal Golamaully, 48, and his wife, Nazimabee Golamaully, 45, from Streatham, south London, provided the money to Zafirr Golamaully on or before August 13 2014. The Old Bailey, 32 Old Bailey, London, EC4M 7EH.

LONDON: First crown appearance of autistic teen accused of Tube security alert. Damon Joseph Smith, of Abbeyfield Road, SE16 2BX, but previously of Devon, is due at the Old Bailey for a short hearing. He has been charged with one count of unlawfully and maliciously making or possessing an unspecified explosive substance with an intent to endanger life or cause serious injury to property. His counsel, Simon Eastwood, said Smith will likely plead not guilty unless the wording is changed to withdraw the "intent", as the incident was merely a "prank". The Old Bailey, 32 Old Bailey, London, EC4M 7EH.

NATIONWIDE: Landmark buildings across the UK to be illuminated in support of BBC Breakfast's Shine a Light on Cancer series. In the evening Belfast City Hall, SSE Hydro Arena Glasgow, Gateshead Millennium Bridge, First Direct Arena Leeds, Liverpool Town Hall, Port of Liverpool Building, Blackpool Tower, Wales Millennium Centre, Gloucester Cathedral, BT Tower London, London Eye and Edinburgh Castle will be bathed in coloured lights to mark the occasion and to encourage people to watch the reports.

LONDON: Man in court on terror charges. Ghulam Hussain, of Track Road in Batley, West Yorkshire, is charged with two offences contrary to the Terrorism Act. He is alleged to have bought a plane ticket to travel to Pakistan in November and return a week later via Turkey, and obtaining credit cards by providing false details of employment and income. Hussain is also accused of giving an undercover officer money to fund accommodation for a journey to Syria to join IS, also known as Daesh, and providing the officer with advice on various topics including airport security. The Old Bailey, 32 Old Bailey, London, EC4M 7EH.

LONDON: MOVED TO JANUARY 30: PCMH for Mark Frost who is accused of child sex offences in Thailand. Frost has admitted 17 offences, which include inciting boys to engage in sex acts while he chatted on a webcam with a man in Holland. He faces a further five counts. The Old Bailey, 32 Old Bailey, London, EC4M 7EH.

EDINBURGH: Oscar-winner Leonardo Di Caprio is due to visit one of the Social Bite sandwich shops in Edinburgh, which work to help the homeless. He is then making a keynote speech at Scottish Business Awards at the EICC at 7.30pm. Edinburgh.

Words, pictures and video planned.

PARIS: Sir Michael Fallon speech to Franco-British Council. MOD 02072187907.

HANOI, VIETNAM: The Duke of Cambridge to attend third International Wildlife Trade Conference in Hanoi, Vietnam, at the invitation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office . The Duke, who is President of United for Wildlife, will also have the opportunity to engage with local people and leaders in conservation while visiting the country. Also attending is Environment Secretary Andrea Leadsom. Royal Communications 020 7930 4832.

LONDON: The Prince of Wales to attend The Prince's Accounting for Sustainability Project (A4S) Summit and meet guests, including global business leaders. St James's Palace, Cleveland Row, London, SW1A 1BQ.

LONDON: Woman charged with terror offences in court. Jade Campbell, 25, from Mitcham Road, Wandsworth, is charged with three offences including possessing a record likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism, making false representations to obtain a passport and making a hoax bomb threat. She is in custody. The Old Bailey, 32 Old Bailey, London, EC4M 7EH. 02031263050.

LONDON: Hearing for man charged with the murder of a male nurse at a mental health unit. Jimmy Jedson, of Brighton Road, South Croydon, is accused of stabbing Patrick Clarke to death at Southleigh Community Hospital in Croydon. The Old Bailey, 32 Old Bailey, London, EC4M 7EH.

0800 LONDON: Photocall with the world's shortest (in height) married couple to celebrate the 12th annual Guinness World Records Day. St Thomas's Hospital, Lambeth Palace Road, London, SE1 7EH. Doug Male Doug.male@guinnessworldrecords.com  020 7891 4586.

0830 LONDON: IPPR launches new Economic Justice Commission. Speakers: Juergen Maier, Chief Executive of Siemens UK; Helena Morrissey , Chair of the Investment Association; Sandra Kerr, Race Equality Director, Business in the Community ; Grace Gould, entrepreneur-In-residence at Local Globe; Sara Bryson, Community Organiser, Citizens UK Tyne and Wear; Michael Jacobs, Director of the IPPR Commission on Economic Justice; Tom Kibasi, Director of IPPR. Shoreditch Town Hall, 380 Old Street, EC1V 9LT. k.walters@ippr.org .

Words in file under embargo.

0900 LONDON: Launch of Hyde Park Winter Wonderland's Magical Ice Kingdom. Created from over 500 tonnes of ice and snow. Queen Elizabeth Gate, Hyde Park, London. Emma Kelleher 07710 023 630 emma@plus1comms.com .

Pictures planned.

0900 LONDON: Media preview of the new Design Museum. Opens 9.15am, photocall 11am, press conference 12pm, building tour 12.30pm, Fear and Love exhibition tour 1pm, Designer Maker User exhibition tour 2pm. 223-238 Kensington High Street, W8 6AG. jordan.lewis@designmuseum.org .

0930 LONDON: Advance press access to former chancellor Sir Geoffrey Howe 's private office files. Copy embargoed to 0001 Tuesday November 22. The National Archives, Ruskin Avenue, Kew, TW9 4DU. 020 8392 5277.

0930: Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML ) releases its monthly market commentary. CML 020 7438 8923.

0930 LONDON: Fitness to practise hearing continues for "registrant A", who was referenced in Ebola nurse Pauline Cafferkey's NMC hearing in September. Hearing for Donna Wood expected to last eight days, with Wood expected to give evidence on Thursday. NMC, 2 Stratford Place, Montfichet Road, E20 1EJ. 020 7681 5884.

0930 LONDON: Office for National Statistics publishes retail sales figures for October.

1000 DUBLIN: Inquests for two of the IRA's Disappeared. Kevin McKee, 17, and 25-year-old Seamus Wright were found together in a shallow grave near Coghalstown, Co Meath, in September 2015 during searches for another man.

1000 BIRMINGHAM: Man in court after stranded car blocked tram network. Maurice Cooney, of Station Road, Donnington, Telford, Shropshire, is accused of drink-driving and causing an obstruction to the Midland Metro in Birmingham. The 33-year-old is also charged with driving with no insurance near Birmingham's Snow Hill tram stop on November 6 this year. Birmingham Magistrates' Court, Corporation Street, Birmingham, B4 6QA.

1000 LONDON: Plea hearing of parents of Jack Letts, dubbed "Jihadi Jack" charged with terror offences. The parents of a 20-year-old believed to be the first white Briton to join Islamic State in Syria are to appear charged with terrorism offences. John Letts, 55, and Sally Lane, 54, have pleaded not guilty to three counts of making money available knowing or having reasonable cause to suspect that it may be used for a terrorist purpose. Mrs Lane is charged with two further counts of attempting to provide money knowing it may be used to fund terrorism, and has pleaded not guilty to both. On bail. The Old Bailey, 32 Old Bailey, London, EC4M 7EH.

1000 LEEDS: Tractor driver to appear in court over boy's death. Harry Whitlam, 11, was knocked down and killed at Swithens Farm in Rothwell in August 2013. Gary Green, 51, has admitted failing to take steps to prevent putting others at risk by operating a tractor while under the influence of alcohol. He will appear at a two-day hearing to establish the facts about the incident. Leeds Crown Court, The Court House, 1 Oxford Row, Leeds, West Yorkshire, LS1 3BG.

1030 BILLINGSHURST, WEST SUSSEX: Press preview of an almost complete Dodo skeleton, before it is sold at Summers Place Auctions. Summers Place Auctions, The Walled Garden, Stane Street, Billingshurst, West Sussex, RH14 9AB. Silke Lohmann 07932 618754 silke@exclamationpr.co.uk .

1100 LONDON: Shadow business secretary Clive Lewis speech. Mr Lewis will set out his views of what a future industrial strategy must do, and outline Labour's plan to tackle the challenges facing the economy in the wake of Brexit. Royal Society of Chemistry , Burlington House, Piccadilly, W1J 0BA. mediaevents@labour.org.uk  0207 7831393.

Words planned.

1100 LONDON: Sheena Easton and 42nd Street cast meet and greet. Sheena Easton will make her West End debut with a cast that includes Tom Lister, Clare Halse and Norman Bowman Saloon Bar, Theatre Royal Drury Lane. arabella.neville-rolfe@target-live.co.uk .

1300 LONDON: Actor Will Poulter to visit over 100 young people from The Grey Coat Hospital School to highlight Anti-Bullying Week. Will Poulter is an Anti-Bullying Ambassador for the Diana Award's Anti-Bullying Campaign. He will speak about his own experiences of bullying and engage with the young people who are working as anti-bullying ambassadors in their school. The Grey Coat Hospital School, London, SW1. Emma Pelling 07958 558172 emma@pellingpr.co.uk .

1630 LOS ANGELES: Pre-trial hearing in Robbie Williams sexual harassment lawsuit. The singer and his wife Ayda Field are accused of engaging in "unwanted and unwelcome sexual conduct" towards their former PA Gilles De Bonfilhs. Department 49, 111 North Hill Street, Los Angeles.

1700 LONDON: National Union of Teachers march and rally over school funding. NUT press office 020 7380 4706.

1745 LONDON: Special screening of Sully Miracle on the Hudson. Tom Hanks, Aaron Eckhart and Chesley Sullenberger attending. BFI IMAX. Jessica.Askham@ddapr.com .

Video planned.

1800 LONDON: Uk premiere of Joe & Caspar Hit the Road USA. The film is released on YouTube today. Cineworld at The Empire Theatre, 5-6 Leicester Square, London, WC2H 7NA. Matty O'Riordan 020 7292 6454 Matty.ORiordan@premiercomms.com .

ends

Document PRESSA0020161116ecbg009st



current
Chadbourne & Parke Asks Court To Toss Partners' Gender Bias Suit

BY BRIAN BAXTER 
789 words
16 November 2016
New York Law Journal
NYLJ
p.6, col.4
Volume 256; Issue 95
English
Copyright 2016 LexisNexis, a Division of Reed Elsevier, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

CHADBOURNE & Parke on Monday formally asked a Manhattan federal judge to dismiss a high-profile gender bias suit filed against the firm two months ago by litigation partner Kerrie Campbell in Washington, D.C.

In its 25-page filing, Chadbourne's lawyers from Proskauer Rose claim that Campbell and fellow plaintiff and former Chadbourne partner Jaroslawa Zelinsky Johnson lack standing to file a class action suit against the firm under current employment discrimination laws.

Chadbourne cites a Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher brokered victory for retail giant Walmart Stores Inc. in a landmark 2011 U.S. Supreme Court case in arguing that the plaintiffs putative class of 26 current and former female lawyers is too small to warrant class certification. The firm notes that many of those in the putative class are not even U.S. citizens.

As equity partners at Chadbourne, Campbell and Johnson "operate autonomously by setting their own hours of work and determining the manner in which they practice law," according to Chadbourne's motion to dismiss.

As such, the firm claims that they are effectively employers, not employees, and thus unable to show a reporting relationship necessary to bring a gender discrimination case. As partners at the firm, Chadbourne argues that Campbell and Johnson had the power to make changes in its operations.

A Chadbourne spokesman said in a statement that the firm's motion makes clear that the case against it should have never been brought.

"The plaintiffs as partners of the firm are its owners, not its employees, and thus are not legally entitled to bring claims against the firm under the employment laws that they are trying to invoke," the firm said. "These are uniquely individual claims, and plaintiffs cannot inflate the group they purport to represent to a level that warrants class action treatment under controlling law. Notwithstanding the fanfare with which this lawsuit was announced by the plaintiffs, the fact is that it is plagued by fundamental legal defects that require it to be dismissed."

Campbell accused Chadbourne of running an "all-male dictatorship" on her Aug. 31 complaint against the New York-based firm, which alleged that Chadbourne routinely paid women partners less and denied them leadership opportunities.

Johnson, a former managing partner of Chadbourne's shuttered Kiev office, sought to join Campbell's suit in late October. A week later, Chadbourne filed counterclaims against Campbell, accusing her of failing to live up to her promises after joining the firm as a lateral partner hire in January 2014.

David Sanford, chairman of Sanford Heisler, has faced off before against Chadbourne's Proskauer lawyers in employment discrimination cases. He pilloried Chadbourne's attempt to dismiss his clients' case in a statement provided to The American Lawyer.

"Chadbourne's latest filings are simply another attempt to silence two women who had the courage to speak out against the culture of entrenched sexism and chauvinism at the firm," Sanford said. "We are confident we will defeat Chadbourne's motions and ultimately will vindicate the rights of female attorneys at the firm. Chadbourne may continue its assault on the equal rights of female partners but it should have no doubt that Ms. Campbell and Ms. Johnson will continue their pursuit of justice."

Sanford has said previously that Chadbourne has no arbitration provision in its partnership agreement. The American Lawyer has spoken with three former female partners at Chadbourne in an effort to verify Campbell and Johnson's claims.

Two of the three, who requested anonymity in order to speak freely about their former firm, were receptive to allegations made by plaintiffs. A third, while sympathetic, was skeptical that Chadbourne would make decisions on compensation and status at the firm solely on the basis of gender.

In mid-September, a group of 14 current female partners at Chadbourne wrote a public letter to Sanford taking him to task for trying to speak on their behalf about conditions for women lawyers at the firm. While the letter did not directly address the claims in Campbell's complaint, in its court papers Monday, Chadbourne wrote that the group "reject ... [counsel's] claim to represent a class that purportedly includes [them]."

Andrew Giaccia, managing partner of Chadbourne since being elected to the firm's top leadership role in late 2010, also filed an affidavit in the case on Monday. Attached to the affidavit were several exhibits, including a copy of Chadbourne's partnership agreement and a firm memo to all partners dated Dec. 16, 2015, detailing its year-end point setting and bonus process.

@| Brian Baxter is a reporter for Law Journal affiliate The Am Law Daily. He can be reached at bbaxter@alm.com. 

Document NYLJ000020161116ecbg0004f



Rhode Island men allege    discrimination  by Wal-Mart

157 words
15 November 2016
06:54 AM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2016.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved. 

PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP) — Two former security workers at a Rhode Island Wal-Mart say in federal lawsuits filed against the retailer that they were victims of racial discrimination.

Robert McCutcheon and James Braddock worked as "asset protection associates" at the Providence store. They tell The Providence Journal (http://bit.ly/2ftRzN1 ) that they loved their jobs, and saw room for advancement and long-term careers.

The men, who are both black, allege they were called "gangstas" by their supervisors, subjected to racial stereotypes, sent into largely minority neighborhoods to retrieve shopping carts, and denied promotions based on race.

They are seeking unspecified damages and are asking the court to find Wal-Mart in violation of state fair employment laws and the Rhode Island Civil Rights Act.

A Wal-Mart spokesman said the company denies the allegations and does not tolerate discrimination.

___

Information from: The Providence Journal, http://www.providencejournal.com

Document APRS000020161115ecbf00ane

Search Summary

 All of these words

     At least one of these words
discrimination discriminatory discriminate discriminates discriminated discriminating harassment
     None of these words
"price discrimination"
     This exact phrase

     Date
11/12/2016 to 01/11/2017
     Source
All Sources
     Author
All Authors
     Company
Walmart Inc
     Subject
All Subjects
     Industry
All Industries
     Region
All Regions
     Language
English
     Results Found
36
     Timestamp
20 June 2023 9:18 AM
    
