 
•	Harford county maryland Frederick Maryland Man charged with murder in shooting of his wife Medical marijuana chairman backs diversity...
•	A class action shift.
•	Child laborers 'used to build new Wal-Mart and Hobby Lobby stores were hired by construction firm' tied to polygamous religion sect wh...
•	Police Logburglary Crueltyto Animals Disorderly Conduct Dui Drug Charges Harassment Pfa Violation Simple Assault Speeding Terroristic...
•	Wal-Mart takes Texas to court to crack liquor-sales market
•	Wal-Mart takes Texas to court to crack liquor-sales market
•	Wal-Mart takes Texas to court to crack liquor-sales market
•	Fired over politics: Former DA aide's suit
•	UPDATE 2-Puerto Rico cannot enforce a Wal-Mart tax - U.S. appeals court
•	Puerto Rico cannot enforce a Wal-Mart tax: U.S. appeals court
•	Puerto Rico cannot enforce a Wal-Mart tax -U.S. appeals court
•	Man accused of Wal-Mart killing makes his first court appearance ; Kenneth Briggs Jr. stands accused in the death of Roger Nelsen, who was ...
•	Today's Must-Reads For Entrepreneurs: Kobe Bryant's New Fund, Wal-Mart's Crime Problem, Inventing The SuperSoaker
•	Wal-Mart to Pay $90,000 to Settle Disability Discrimination Suit
•	There may be another woman in Downing Street, but equal pay is still a major issue for employers
•	COLUMN: Solve the problem of food waste: eat the ugly
•	POLICE OFFICER'S PARTNER JAILED FOR ASKING HAIRDRESSER TO MAKE FALSE STATEMENT
•	POLICE OFFICER'S PARTNER JAILED FOR ASKING HAIRDRESSER TO MAKE FALSE STATEMENT
•	Wal-Mart Manager Sues Employer Over Religious Bias Claims
•	Bangladesh Canvas: AFWA levels allegations on Walmart's Bangladesh suppliers
•	Creep fined after buying 20 pairs of Asda knickers and leaving them in women's homes
•	Loner left more than 20 pairs of Asda and Tesco knickers at homes of female victims
•	Loner harassed Shirley women by pushing knickers through their letterboxes

Harford county maryland Frederick Maryland Man charged with murder in shooting of his wife Medical marijuana chairman backs diversity Wal-Mart cancels plans to build a store Disaster reimbursements for storm total $25.4M

598 words
2 September 2016
The Capital (Annapolis)
CPGN
English
Copyright (c) 2016 The Capital (Annapolis). Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights Reserved. 

The chairman of Maryland's medical marijuana commission says the panel is committed to promoting racial diversity in the state's developing medical marijuana industry.

[Paul Davies] writes that a March attorney general's letter of advice found the panel couldn't conduct race-conscious licensing without a disparity study showing past discrimination in similar programs, and the letter's author wasn't aware of such a study on licensing.

The city of Frederick had been expecting Wal-Mart to anchor a revival of the shopping area along U.S. 40 on the city's west side.

Harford county

Man charged with murder in shooting of his wife

FALLSTON - A Fallston man is charged with murder after police say he shot and killed his wife at their home.

The Harford County Sheriff's Office says in a news release that 54-year-old Ricardo Muscolino turned himself in to deputies who came to his house Wednesday night.

Muscolino's wife, 48-year-old Lara Muscolino, suffered multiple gunshot wounds. She died at a hospital.

The sheriff's office says the couple's three children were home at the time of the shooting. They were not injured.

Investigators have not detailed a motive beyond saying there was a domestic dispute between the couple.

maryland

Medical marijuana chairman backs diversity

The chairman of Maryland's medical marijuana commission says the panel is committed to promoting racial diversity in the state's developing medical marijuana industry.

Dr. Paul Davies wrote Thursday the panel will work with the legislature on the issue.

Critics have noted a lack of diversity in applicants selected as finalists to grow and process marijuana. They say the law required the commission to "actively seek to achieve" racial, ethnic and geographic diversity.

But Davies writes that a March attorney general's letter of advice found the panel couldn't conduct race-conscious licensing without a disparity study showing past discrimination in similar programs, and the letter's author wasn't aware of such a study on licensing.

Rachel Coombs, an attorney general spokeswoman, says the panel wasn't prohibited from conducting a disparity study.

Frederick

Wal-Mart cancels plans

to build a store

FREDERICK - A Frederick development attorney says Wal-Mart is canceling plans to build a store along a tarnished retail strip known as the "Golden Mile."

Dave Severn told The Frederick News-Post Thursday that his client, Rockwood Capital, got the news in a letter from Arkansas-based Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the nation's largest retailer.

Severn says his client was "flabbergasted" by the decision, which comes several years into a development contract.

The city of Frederick had been expecting Wal-Mart to anchor a revival of the shopping area along U.S. 40 on the city's west side.

In April, workers began demolishing the vacant Frederick Towne Mall to make way for the Wal-Mart and 16 other retail shops. The city also has been working to improve mass transit and pedestrian routes in the area.

Maryland

Disaster reimbursements for storm total $25.4M

The Maryland Emergency Management Agency says the federal government will reimburse Maryland state and local governments $25.4 million to cover most of their costs related to a January snowstorm. The payments follow a presidential disaster declaration in March for the storm Jan. 22-23 that buried the state in up to 38.5 inches of snow.

Document CPGN000020161108ec92007zl

A class action shift.

Chemerinsky, Erwin 
1,128 words
1 September 2016
Trial
TRIL
54
ISSN: 0041-2538; Volume 52; Issue 9
English
Copyright 2016 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved. 

During the Supreme Court's October 2015 Term, the biggest news for class actions was what didn't happen: The Court did not impose additional restrictions. More generally, Justice Antonin Scalia's death likely means that there is no longer a majority on the Court to limit class actions.

In recent years, the Court has imposed substantial restrictions on class actions. Notably, all of these decisions were 5-4 rulings with Justice Scalia writing for the Court. In AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion, the Court held that an arbitration clause in a consumer contract must be enforced and that it precluded even classwide relief. (1) In Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes, the Court barred a class action of 1.6 million female employees claiming pay discrimination on the ground that their claims lacked sufficient commonality because they worked at different Walmart stores. (2) And in Comcast Corp. v. Behrend, the Court precluded an antitrust class action brought by 2 million customers, reasoning that the plaintiff expert's regression model could not be accepted as evidence that damages were susceptible of measurement across the entire class--a requirement for class certification. (3)

The cases before the Court in the October 2015 Term had the potential to impose additional significant limits on class actions. But it didn't happen. In Tyson Foods, Inc. v. Bouaphakeo--a class action involving employees who claimed they were not paid for time spent "donning and doffing" protective gear--the issue was whether class certification could rely on an expert witness's estimation of overtime hours worked based on a representative sample. (4) The Court, in a 6-2 decision, ruled that representative proof from a sample could be used to show predominance of common questions of law or fact in a class action.

In an opinion by Justice Anthony Kennedy, the Court declined to "announce a broad rule against the use in class actions of... representative evidence," concluding that "a categorical exclusion... would make little sense." (5) Instead, the Court held that the permissibility of statistical sampling or representative evidence "turns not on the form a proceeding takes--be it a class or individual action-- but on the degree to which the evidence is reliable in proving or disproving the elements of the relevant cause of action." (6)

The Court allowed the use of statistical evidence in Tyson Foods because the Fair Labor Standards Act allows for the use of averages and representative evidence to prove the amount and extent of uncompensated work as a "matter of just and reasonable inference" when an employer violates its statutory duty to "keep proper records." (7)

The Court left open a question that has split the circuits: whether uninjured class members may recover. The Court said that this is a question "of great importance," but concluded that it is not "a question yet fairly presented by this case, because the damages award has not yet been disbursed, nor does the record indicate how it will be disbursed." (8) Chief Justice John Roberts wrote a concurring opinion to "express ... concern that the district court may not be able to fashion a method for awarding damages only to those class members who suffered an actual injury." (9)

In Campbell-Ewald v. Gomez, the Court held that an unaccepted offer of judgment under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 68, made before a plaintiff files a motion for class certification, does not moot the plaintiff's claims. (10) Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, writing for a 6-3 majority, explained that "an unaccepted settlement offer--like any unaccepted contract offer--is a legal nullity, with no operative effect." (11) A contrary result would have made it very easy for defendants to preclude class actions simply by offering a settlement to each named plaintiff.

But the Court declined to decide "whether the result would be different if a defendant deposits the full amount of the plaintiff's individual claim in an account payable to the plaintiff, and the court then enters judgment for the plaintiff in that amount." (12) The Ninth Circuit addressed this in a subsequent case. In Chen v. Allstate Insurance Co., the court held that the defendant's action-- depositing money into an escrow account and offering injunctive relief to fix the challenged practices--would not moot the plaintiff's claim until he or she "actually receives all of the relief he or she could receive on the claim through further litigation." (13)

One other case worth mentioning because of its potential implications for class actions is Spokeo, Inc. v. Robins. Spokeo is a website that can be used to learn information about individuals. (14) Robins discovered that much of the information about him was inaccurate, and he sued Spokeo for violating the Fair Credit Reporting Act.

The district court dismissed, holding that Robins had not shown a sufficient injury for standing in federal court. The Ninth Circuit reversed and said that the law was clear that Congress, by statute may create rights--albeit rights that would not otherwise exist--and the infringement of those rights is an injury sufficient for standing.

But the Court, 6-2, reversed. Justice Samuel Alito, writing for the majority, said that an injury must be both "particularized" and "concrete." The Court found that Robins met the requirement for a particularized injury because he showed that he was personally hurt, but the Court said that the Ninth Circuit had not specifically considered whether the injury was "concrete" and remanded the case. The question for future litigation, and it is likely to cause huge confusion in the lower courts, is what does "concrete" mean?

Although Tyson Foods and CampbellEwald leave open questions, each is an important victory for class action plaintiffs. And if Justice Scalia's replacement shares the views of Justices Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor, and Elena Kagan with regard to class actions, these questions--and many others--likely will be resolved in favor of plaintiffs.

Notes

(1.) 563 U.S. 333 (2011).

(2.) 564 U.S. 338 (2011).

(3.) 133 S. Ct. 1426 (2013).

(4.) 136 S. Ct. 1036 (2016).

(5.) Id. at 1046.

(6.) Id.

(7.) Id. at 1047.

(8.) Id. at 1050.

(9.) Id. at 1050 (Roberts, C.J., concurring).

(10.) 136 S. Ct. 663 (2016).

(11.) Id. at 670 (quoting Genesis Healthcare Corp. v. Symczyk, 133 S. Ct. 1523, 1533 (2013) (Kagan, J., dissenting)).

(12.) Id. at 672.

(13.) 819 F.3d 1136, 1144 (9th Cir. 2016) (emphasis in original).

(14.) 136 S. Ct. 1540 (2016).

Erwin Chemerinsky is the Dean and the Raymond Pryke Professor of First Amendment Law at the University of California, Irvine School of Law in Irvine, Calif. He can be reached at echemerinsky@law.uci.edu.

Document TRIL000020160922ec910000f



News
Child laborers 'used to build new Wal-Mart and Hobby Lobby stores were hired by construction firm' tied to polygamous religion sect whose disgraced ex-leader is behind bars for having child brides

ASSOCIATED PRESS      
664 words
31 August 2016
11:29 PM
Mail Online
DAMONL
English
Copyright 2016      

* Phaze Concrete, of Utah, is accused in federal court of using workers as young as 12 at some of its construction sites

* In a lawsuit, federal prosecutors charge that the children did a number of dangerous tasks for long hours with little pay

* Child laborers built new stores for Wal-Mart, Scheels All Sports and Hobby Lobby, court documents charge

* The contractor was previously accused of paying workers below minimum wage so it could send money to a polygamous Mormon sect

* The sect, the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, split from main-branch Mormonism because of its polygamous doctrines

* Its disgraced leader, Warren Jeffs, is serving a life sentence for sexually assaulting two girls, 12 and 15, whom he called his 'spiritual wives'

A Utah-based concrete company tied to a Mormon fundamentalist group that practices polygamy has been using children at its sites, a federal child labor lawsuit charges.

The US Department of Labor accuses construction company Phaze Concrete of hiring underage laborers to do excavation jobs, operate forklifts and saws, and build concrete forms for long hours with little pay in dangerous condition.

The company used teenagers for work on new stores for Wal-Mart in Missouri, Scheels All Sports in Kansas and Hobby Lobby in Nebraska, among other jobs, court documents filed Tuesday show.

Phaze Concrete had been accused previously of paying their workers below minimum wage so it could funnel money to the polygamous Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, The Salt Lake Tribune reported.

The controversial church's disgraced former leader, Warren Jeffs, is serving a life sentence in Texas for sexually assaulting two underage girls, 12 and 15, whom he called his 'spiritual wives.'

The FLDS Church split from the The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints largely because of its polygamous doctrines.

Federal investigators said they believe Phaze pulled many teenage workers from the group's home base along the Utah-Arizona border over the decade.

Two teens who grew up in the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints said in court documents they were pulled out of school to go to work at ages 12 and 14.

The teens said they were paid $200 every two weeks for working construction for 12 hours a day or more, though those payments could be irregular.

Phaze workers were also often told to sign over their paychecks so the money could be used by leaders of the group, according to court documents.

U.S. Department of Labor lawyers want a judge to order the company to pay back wages and stop using child labor.

The case filed Tuesday marks the latest move by federal investigators to rein in the secretive group tied to abuses from underage marriage to discrimination against non-members.

U.S. Department of Labor lawyers also filed a child labor case against another Utah-based company accused of putting hundreds of children to work for long hours with little food on a pecan farm in 2012.

Paragon Contractors denied it, but in June a judge found it had violated the law.

In Arizona, a jury found this spring that the twin polygamous towns on the Utah border violated the constitutional rights of nonbelievers by denying them basic services such as police protection.

Several church leaders have also been charged in Utah with conducting a multimillion-dollar food stamp fraud scheme.

Leader Lyle Jeffs escaped home confinement in that case and remains on the run.

Wal-Mart, Scheels All Sports and Hobby Lobby did not immediately return messages from the Associated Press seeking comment on Wednesday.

A lawyer for Phaze, Blake Hamilton, said Wednesday the company hasn't yet been served and he couldn't comment on the allegations.

Document DAMONL0020160831ec9100bcl

A
Police Logburglary Crueltyto Animals Disorderly Conduct Dui Drug Charges    Harassment  Pfa Violation Simple Assault Speeding Terroristic Threats Theft Theft Charges

1,119 words
31 August 2016
LNP
LANC
A22
English
© 2016 Lancaster New Era/Intelligencer Journal/Sunday News. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved. 

WEST EARL TWP.: A burglar broke into a house on the first block of Walnut Drive and stole a small amount of cash Aug. 27 or 28, police said.

LANCASTER: A burglar cut a window screen and crawled through an unlocked window in the 200 block of East Lemon Street the afternoon of Aug. 27. Police said nothing was stolen.

EPHRATA: Travis L. Wagner, 21, of Reinholds, was charged with burglary and sexual intercourse with an animal after he entered a barn and had sexual intercourse with a miniature horse Aug. 16 in the 500 block of Indiantown Road, police said.

PROVIDENCE TWP.: A STIHL chop saw was stolen -Aug. 26 from the 300 block of Radcliff Road.

PROVIDENCE TWP.: Israel Salas-Sanchez, 43, of Oxford, was charged after he left his dog inside a vehicle Aug. 12 at BB's Grocery, 581 Camargo Road, police said.

MANHEIM TWP.: Diana C. Wendler, 51, of Camden-Wyoming, Delaware, and John D. Taylor, 56, of Hot Springs, South Dakota, were charged after the two got out of their vehicles at a red light on New Holland Avenue and got into a verbal argument Aug. 27, police said. Officials said Taylor pushed Wendler during the dispute.

SALISBURY TWP.: Lee D. Hassel, 27, of Bird-in-Hand, was charged after an incident Aug. 9 in the 600 block of Kennedy Street, police said.

MILLERSVILLE: Patrick Shenberger, 19, of Columbia, was charged after he was found passed out in a vehicle that was left running Aug. 23 in the 1100 block of Hillview Avenue, police said.

EAST LAMPETER TWP.: Yana Kohler, 23, of Lancaster, was charged after a traffic stop July 25 in the 100 block of Oakview Road, police said.

EAST LAMPETER TWP.: Kelly M. Strickland, 27, of Elkton, Maryland, was charged after a traffic stop July 24 in the 2400 block of Lincoln Highway East, police said.

PARADISE TWP.: Michael Christner, 20, of Paradise, recently was charged with possession of drug paraphernalia and a small amount of marijuana as the result of an incident June 20 in the 100 block of Black Horse Pike, police said.

LANCASTER: Richard L. Keener, 70, of the 100 block of East Main Street, Strasburg, was charged after he struck a woman in the face with his elbow Aug. 27 at Lancaster General Hospital, 555 N. Duke St., police said.

MANHEIM TWP.: William C. Lawrence, 34, of the 800 block of Louise Avenue, was charged after a domestic incident Aug. 26, police said.

PROVIDENCE TWP.: Eugene Elam, 40, of Leola, was charged after he pushed a woman into a door and chair, causing her to fall to the ground, Aug. 4 in the first block of Winding Lane, police said.

COLERAIN TWP.: Ryan Johnson-Mahala, 41, of Oxford, was charged after a domestic incident July 6 in the 2000 block of Kirkwood Pike, police said.

MANHEIM TWP.: Micael Rosario-Gonzalez, 36, of South Duke Street, was charged after he got into an argument with a woman and threw her to the ground Aug. 27 in the

1900 block of Fruitville Pike, police said. The woman has a PFA against Rosario-Gonzalez, police said.

MANHEIM TWP.: Thomas K. Hager, 45, of the 1100 block of Manheim Pike, was charged after he choked a woman and and punched her in the face Aug. 27 at his home, police said.

NEW HOLLAND: James Weiler, 21, of the 300 block of East Jackson Street, was charged with simple assault, harassment and endangering the welfare of children after a domestic incident Aug. 27 at his home, police said. Weiler choked, pushed and twisted the arm of a woman while she was holding an infant, police said.

MANHEIM TWP.: Police cited 10 motorists on Route 283 near Route 30 on Aug. 26. The highest speed recorded was 81 mph in the 55-mph zone.

LANCASTER: Jonathan Andino-Pagan, 28, of the 300 block of West Grant Street, was charged after he cursed at customers and threatened to open fire inside Metro PCS, 47 W. King St., Aug. 26, police said.

EAST LAMPETER TWP.: A bright-orange Kent BMX-style bike valued at $200 was stolen Aug. 28 from the front porch of a home on Linda Avenue.

MANHEIM TWP.: A thief broke the window of a vehicle parked at Penn Cinema, 541 Airport Road, the evening of Aug. 27 and stole a handgun, purse and phone.

COLUMBIA: A rifle and shotgun were stolen from a truck overnight Aug. 26 in the 800 block of Chestnut Street. The loss is $700.

EAST LAMPETER TWP.: A USPS package containing a Samsung Galaxy Note and cellphone was stolen Aug. 26 from the front door of a home in the 1800 block of Lincoln Highway East. The loss is $400.

PENN TWP.: Maria I. Rivera, 19, of the 700 block of Fourth Street, was charged after she stole a designer bag valued at $700 and used the credit and gift cards that were inside it Aug. 29, police said. The purse was left behind in a car while Rivera was working for a local auto reconditioner, police said.

EAST LAMPETER TWP.: Vivian L. Sanchez, 31, and Luz L. Saez, 24, both of Lancaster, were charged with the theft of a shopping cart full of clothing valued at $323.85 from Wal-Mart, 2034 Lincoln Highway East, on Aug. 28, police said. Sanchez is charged with felony retail theft and was committed to Lancaster County Prison. Saez was charged with misdemeanor retail theft, police said.

MANHEIM TWP.: Tina M. Klinger, 54, of West Main Street, Mount Joy, was charged with the theft of $55 worth of items from Wal- Mart, 2030 Fruitville Pike, on Aug. 27, police said.

EAST LAMPETER TWP.: Nidia I. Gonzales, 34, of Lancaster, was charged after she stole a shopping cart full of items valued at $372.69 from Wal-Mart, 2034 Lincoln Highway East, on Aug. 26, police said.

LANCASTER: Jacob Cummings, 20, of the 700 block of George Street, Millersville, was charged with the theft of two cartons of cigarettes from Turkey Hill, 410 E. Chestnut St., on Aug. 9, police said.

LANCASTER: George E. McClain, 44, of the 100 block of Prospect Street, was charged with stealing jewelry, an air conditioner, a coin collection, a sword and cash in May. McClain had been hired to help pack the belongings of residents of the 500 block of West Vine Street in preparation for a move. When the victims reached their destination, they noticed the belongings were missing. McCain admitted to taking the items and selling them for drug money, police said.

Document LANC000020160831ec8v0000i



 Wal-Mart takes Texas to court to crack liquor-sales market

Michael Graczyk            The Associated Press 
757 words
28 August 2016
Charleston Gazette
CGAZ
P5A
English
(Copyright 2016) 

HOUSTON - Wal-Mart's court fight to sell liquor at its stores in Texas looks to be back on track, but the courtroom is getting crowded.

A federal appeals court is allowing a trade group representing liquor store operators to join a stalled federal lawsuit that the nation's largest retailer filed against the Texas agency that hands out permits to sell booze by the bottle. In trying to crack Texas' restrictions on package liquor licenses, some dating to the end of Prohibition, Wal-Mart contends that some of the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission's rules amount to unconstitutional discrimination.

Austin-based U.S. District Judge Robert Pitman had set the suit for trial next month, but everything stopped in May when the Texas Package Stores Association, representing about 2,500 existing liquor store retailers, got a green light from an appeals court to move forward with challenging Pitman's refusal to let them intervene on the side of the beverage commission.

A panel of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals overturned Pitman's ruling last week and let the association join the lawsuit, saying the trade group had a "protectable interest that may be impaired or injured in the outcome. Pitman now must set a new trial date.

"On behalf of our Texas customers, we are prepared to pursue the case to provide Texans their freedom of choice, Wal-Mart spokeswoman Anne Hatfield said.

Booze is popular in Texas: The liquor industry in Texas generated nearly $14 billion in sales in 2014, the latest annual numbers available from the state Comptroller's Office. And Wal-Mart, with its 574 stores, markets and Sam's Club outlets in Texas, says it's the state's largest purveyor of beer and wine.

While the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company sells liquor in 31 states, it's resorted to court actions only in Texas to try to get into a state's liquor market. In its February 2015 lawsuit, Wal-Mart touted it "helps people save money and live better by purchasing quality products at competitive prices.

But the Texas Package Stores Association contends the retailing giant wants to "upset the level playing field and "change the structure of the Texas market that's existed for decades so the company can make "mass sales of low-priced liquor.

The store group contends the initial defendant, the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission, was focused on more general issues regulating the alcoholic beverage industry in the state and not specifically on liquor store dealers who "stand to lose substantial revenues and long-term investments and be placed at a competitive disadvantage.

TABC spokesman Chris Porter said he couldn't comment on pending court matters.

Bills to loosen liquor license restrictions were introduced in the Texas Legislature in the last session in 2015 but never got out of committee. One such rule that mandates that a publicly traded company - like Wal-Mart - can't hold separate beer and wine and liquor licenses; Hatfield said the rule "is counter to Texas' belief in free enterprise and fair competition.

Another idiosyncrasy allows publicly traded hotel corporations to sell both beer and wine and liquor by the bottle, which Wal-Mart said in its lawsuit is "nothing more than naked economic protectionism.

A Texas liquor license holder also is limited to no more than five package stores, though an immediate blood relative can acquire other licenses and consolidate those licenses into a single entity that exceeds the five-store limit. The effect of that rule is growth of family-owned chain liquor stores in the state; Wal-Mart complains it has "no blood relative to take advantage of the provision.

The five-store limit and the prohibition on holding both a package store permit and a beer and wine retailer's permit go back to 1935, when the Texas Liquor Control Board was created after Prohibition ended. Lawmakers revised its duties and renamed the panel in 1970, and legislators added the publicly traded company ban in 1995 to blunt the effect of a court ruling that invalidated a provision requiring a license holder to be a resident of Texas for at least a year.

One restriction not being contested is a ban on liquor sales at grocery stores. A separate building with its own entrance is permitted under the law, and Wal-Mart says it would accommodate that by dedicating a distinct piece of property at stores to the liquor operation.

Document CGAZ000020160829ec8s0002t



Wal-Mart takes Texas to court to crack liquor-sales market

BY MICHAEL GRACZYK 
AP 
757 words
27 August 2016
11:15 AM
The Canadian Press
CPR
English
(c) 2016 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved. 

HOUSTON _ Wal-Mart's court fight to sell liquor at its stores in Texas looks to be back on track, but the courtroom is getting crowded.

A federal appeals court is allowing a trade group representing liquor store operators to join a stalled federal lawsuit that the nation's largest retailer filed against the Texas agency that hands out permits to sell booze by the bottle. In trying to crack Texas' restrictions on package liquor licenses, some dating to the end of Prohibition, Wal-Mart contends that some of the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission's rules amount to unconstitutional discrimination.

Austin-based U.S. District Judge Robert Pitman had set the suit for trial next month, but everything stopped in May when the Texas Package Stores Association, representing about 2,500 existing liquor store retailers, got a green light from an appeals court to move forward with challenging Pitman's refusal to let them intervene on the side of the beverage commission.

A panel of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals overturned Pitman's ruling last week and let the association join the lawsuit, saying the trade group had a "protectable interest that may be impaired or injured'' in the outcome. Pitman now must set a new trial date.

"On behalf of our Texas customers, we are prepared to pursue the case to provide Texans their freedom of choice,'' Wal-Mart spokeswoman Anne Hatfield said.

Booze is popular in Texas: The liquor industry in Texas generated nearly $14 billion in sales in 2014, the latest annual numbers available from the state Comptroller's Office. And Wal-Mart, with its 574 stores, markets and Sam's Club outlets in Texas, says it's the state's largest purveyor of beer and wine.

While the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company sells liquor in 31 states, it's resorted to court actions only in Texas to try to get into a state's liquor market. In its February 2015 lawsuit, Wal-Mart touted it "helps people save money and live better by purchasing quality products at competitive prices.''

But the Texas Package Stores Association contends the retailing giant wants to "upset the level playing field'' and "change the structure of the Texas market'' that's existed for decades so the company can make "mass sales of low-priced liquor.''

The store group contends the initial defendant, the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission, was focused on more general issues regulating the alcoholic beverage industry in the state and not specifically on liquor store dealers who "stand to lose substantial revenues and long-term investments and be placed at a competitive disadvantage.''

TABC spokesman Chris Porter said he couldn't comment on pending court matters.

Bills to loosen liquor license restrictions were introduced in the Texas Legislature in the last session in 2015 but never got out of committee. One such rule that mandates that a publicly traded company _ like Wal-Mart _ can't hold separate beer and wine and liquor licenses; Hatfield said the rule "is counter to Texas' belief in free enterprise and fair competition.''

Another idiosyncrasy allows publicly traded hotel corporations to sell both beer and wine and liquor by the bottle, which Wal-Mart said in its lawsuit is "nothing more than naked economic protectionism.''

A Texas liquor license holder also is limited to no more than five package stores, though an immediate blood relative can acquire other licenses and consolidate those licenses into a single entity that exceeds the five-store limit. The effect of that rule is growth of family-owned chain liquor stores in the state; Wal-Mart complains it has "no blood relative'' to take advantage of the provision.

The five-store limit and the prohibition on holding both a package store permit and a beer and wine retailer's permit go back to 1935, when the Texas Liquor Control Board was created after Prohibition ended. Lawmakers revised its duties and renamed the panel in 1970, and legislators added the publicly traded company ban in 1995 to blunt the effect of a court ruling that invalidated a provision requiring a license holder to be a resident of Texas for at least a year.

One restriction not being contested is a ban on liquor sales at grocery stores. A separate building with its own entrance is permitted under the law, and Wal-Mart says it would accommodate that by dedicating a distinct piece of property at stores to the liquor operation.

20160827CPCPB6831 

Document CPR0000020160828ec8r0001i



Wal-Mart takes Texas to court to crack liquor-sales market

By MICHAEL GRACZYK 
Associated Press 
962 words
27 August 2016
09:56 AM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2016.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved. 

HOUSTON (AP) — Wal-Mart's court fight to sell liquor at its stores in Texas looks to be back on track, but the courtroom is getting crowded.

A federal appeals court is allowing a trade group representing liquor store operators to join a stalled federal lawsuit that the nation's largest retailer filed against the Texas agency that hands out permits to sell booze by the bottle. In trying to crack Texas' restrictions on package liquor licenses, some dating to the end of Prohibition, Wal-Mart contends that some of the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission's rules amount to unconstitutional discrimination.

Austin-based U.S. District Judge Robert Pitman had set the suit for trial next month, but everything stopped in May when the Texas Package Stores Association, representing about 2,500 existing liquor store retailers, got a green light from an appeals court to move forward with challenging Pitman's refusal to let them intervene on the side of the beverage commission.

A panel of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals overturned Pitman's ruling last week and let the association join the lawsuit, saying the trade group had a "protectable interest that may be impaired or injured" in the outcome. Pitman now must set a new trial date.

"On behalf of our Texas customers, we are prepared to pursue the case to provide Texans their freedom of choice," Wal-Mart spokeswoman Anne Hatfield said.

Booze is popular in Texas: The liquor industry in Texas generated nearly $14 billion in sales in 2014, the latest annual numbers available from the state Comptroller's Office. And Wal-Mart, with its 574 stores, markets and Sam's Club outlets in Texas, says it's the state's largest purveyor of beer and wine.

While the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company sells liquor in 31 states, it's resorted to court actions only in Texas to try to get into a state's liquor market. In its February 2015 lawsuit, Wal-Mart touted it "helps people save money and live better by purchasing quality products at competitive prices."

But the Texas Package Stores Association contends the retailing giant wants to "upset the level playing field" and "change the structure of the Texas market" that's existed for decades so the company can make "mass sales of low-priced liquor."

The store group contends the initial defendant, the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission, was focused on more general issues regulating the alcoholic beverage industry in the state and not specifically on liquor store dealers who "stand to lose substantial revenues and long-term investments and be placed at a competitive disadvantage."

TABC spokesman Chris Porter said he couldn't comment on pending court matters.

Bills to loosen liquor license restrictions were introduced in the Texas Legislature in the last session in 2015 but never got out of committee. One such rule that mandates that a publicly traded company — like Wal-Mart — can't hold separate beer and wine and liquor licenses; Hatfield said the rule "is counter to Texas' belief in free enterprise and fair competition."

Another idiosyncrasy allows publicly traded hotel corporations to sell both beer and wine and liquor by the bottle, which Wal-Mart said in its lawsuit is "nothing more than naked economic protectionism."

A Texas liquor license holder also is limited to no more than five package stores, though an immediate blood relative can acquire other licenses and consolidate those licenses into a single entity that exceeds the five-store limit. The effect of that rule is growth of family-owned chain liquor stores in the state; Wal-Mart complains it has "no blood relative" to take advantage of the provision.

The five-store limit and the prohibition on holding both a package store permit and a beer and wine retailer's permit go back to 1935, when the Texas Liquor Control Board was created after Prohibition ended. Lawmakers revised its duties and renamed the panel in 1970, and legislators added the publicly traded company ban in 1995 to blunt the effect of a court ruling that invalidated a provision requiring a license holder to be a resident of Texas for at least a year.

One restriction not being contested is a ban on liquor sales at grocery stores. A separate building with its own entrance is permitted under the law, and Wal-Mart says it would accommodate that by dedicating a distinct piece of property at stores to the liquor operation.

Signs mark a Wal-Mart store and a Spec's liquor store across the street from each other along Loop 336 in Conroe, Texas, in this Aug. 26, 2016, photo. Spec's, one of the state's largest liquor store chains, belongs to the Texas Package Stores Association, a trade group that has received court approval to join the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission in a lawsuit Wal-Mart has filed against the agency that dispenses liquor licenses. Wal-Mart wants to begin selling bottled liquor in Texas but contends it is prevented by TABC rules that are unconstitutional. (AP Photo/Michael Graczyk) | A Wal-Mart truck drives past a Spec's liquor store Aug. 26, 2016, on Loop 336 in Conroe, Texas, where the stores operate across the street from each other. Spec's, one of the state's largest liquor store chains, belongs to the Texas Package Stores Association, a trade group that has received court approval to join the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission in a lawsuit Wal-Mart has filed against the agency that dispenses liquor licenses. Wal-Mart wants to begin selling bottled liquor in Texas but contends it is prevented by TABC rules that are unconstitutional. (AP Photo/Michael Graczyk) 

Document APRS000020160827ec8r00bvu



NEWS
Fired over politics: Former DA aide's suit

John Marzulli 
John Marzulli 
225 words
26 August 2016
New York Daily News
NYDN
SPORTS FINAL
15
English
© 2016 Daily News, New York.    Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.    All rights reserved. 

THE SISTER OF RACIAL hate murder victim Michael Griffith is suing Brooklyn District Attorney Kenneth Thompson, claiming she was canned as an investigator in the prosecutor's office because of her strong ties to the current DA's predecessor. Brenda Sandiford Crockwell alleges in her $15 million discrimination suit filed Wednesday in Brooklyn Federal Court that she was fired a week after her arrest for shoplifting at a Walmart in October 2014.

Crockwell, 35, had been hired in 2004 by then-Brooklyn DA Charles Hynes, who knew her family because he had been the special prosecutor in the infamous killing of her brother. Griffith was fatally struck by a car in 1986 after he was chased by a group of white youths in Howard Beach. Crockwell served as a rackets investigator under Hynes and voluntarily worked on his reelection campaigns. But Crockwell claims that after Thompson beat Hynes in the 2013 election, she was demoted to a clerk's position. Her arrest, she claims, was a pretext to get rid of someone loyal to Hynes. Crockwell later pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct, a violation, and the case was sealed, according to the suit. A Law Department spokesman said the suit will be reviewed.

Caption: D.A. Thompson, Crockwell and ex-DA Hynes. 

Document NYDN000020160826ec8q0004b



UPDATE 2-Puerto Rico cannot enforce a Wal-Mart tax - U.S. appeals court

446 words
24 August 2016
04:54 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 

(Adds statement from Wal-Mart)                              

NEW YORK, Aug 24 (Reuters) - A U.S. appeals court on Wednesday said cash-strapped Puerto Rico cannot force Wal-Mart Stores Inc's affiliate on the island to pay a special corporate tax that the retailer claimed was discriminatory and violated the U.S. Constitution.                              

The 1st U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Boston upheld a lower court order blocking Puerto Rico from imposing its alternative minimum tax against Wal-Mart Puerto Rico Inc.                              

The decision complicates the U.S. territory's efforts to reduce a $70 billion debt load and restart an economy that has been stalled for a decade with a 45 percent poverty rate.                              

The 2015 tax legislation had raised to 6.5 percent from 2.0 percent the tax for on-island companies with more than $2.75 billion in revenues that buy goods from off-island "related parties."                              

Wal-Mart argued it was the only company that fit that description and effectively taxed on items from its own distribution centers but not those bought from Puerto Rican vendors.                              

A federal court in Puerto Rico sided with Wal-Mart in March.                              

On Wednesday, the appeals panel called the tax "facially discriminatory," saying it taxes only cross-border transactions between a Puerto Rico corporate taxpayer and a related entity located elsewhere. This violated the so-called "dormant" Commerce Clause in the constitution, the court ruled.                              

"Because we want to remain in business in Puerto Rico and to be part of the solution to the current fiscal crisis, we are grateful that the First Circuit affirmed the District Court's decision to strike down this unconstitutional tax," Lorenzo Lopez, a Wal-Mart spokesman said in a statement emailed to Reuters.                              

Puerto Rico's financial problems, spurred by years of borrowing to try to combat economic stagnation, reached a crisis in recent months, as cash reserves dwindled and the island's own fiscal agent, the Government Development Bank, faced insolvency. In July, the territory defaulted on $779 million of its most senior debt.                              

The appeals court admitted Puerto Rico is in "dire financial straits," but called the tax "blunt and unnecessarily over-inclusive."                              

"It essentially establishes an irrebuttable presumption that all inter-corporate transfers to a Puerto Rico branch from related mainland entities are fraudulently priced to evade taxes," the court reasoned.                              

The island's outgoing governor, Alejandro Garcia Padilla, has called Puerto Rico's financial situation a "humanitarian crisis," while U.S. Congress earlier this year passed legislation bringing the island's finances under a federal oversight board.                              

Released: 2016-8-24T22:54:48.000Z 

Document LBA0000020160824ec8o018j2



Puerto Rico cannot enforce a Wal-Mart tax: U.S. appeals court

490 words
24 August 2016
04:58 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 

NEW YORK (Reuters) - A U.S. appeals court on Wednesday said cash-strapped Puerto Rico cannot force Wal-Mart Stores Inc's <WMT.N> affiliate on the island to pay a special corporate tax that the retailer claimed was discriminatory and violated the U.S. Constitution.

The 1st U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Boston upheld a lower court order blocking Puerto Rico from imposing its alternative minimum tax against Wal-Mart Puerto Rico Inc.

The decision complicates the U.S. territory's efforts to reduce a $70 billion debt load and restart an economy that has been stalled for a decade with a 45 percent poverty rate. The 2015 tax legislation had raised to 6.5 percent from 2.0 percent the tax for on-island companies with more than $2.75 billion in revenues that buy goods from off-island "related parties."

Wal-Mart argued it was the only company that fit that description and effectively taxed on items from its own distribution centers but not those bought from Puerto Rican vendors.

A federal court in Puerto Rico sided with Wal-Mart in March.

On Wednesday, the appeals panel called the tax "facially discriminatory," saying it taxes only cross-border transactions between a Puerto Rico corporate taxpayer and a related entity located elsewhere. This violated the so-called "dormant" Commerce Clause in the constitution, the court ruled.

"Because we want to remain in business in Puerto Rico and to be part of the solution to the current fiscal crisis, we are grateful that the First Circuit affirmed the District Court’s decision to strike down this unconstitutional tax," Lorenzo Lopez, a Wal-Mart spokesman said in a statement emailed to Reuters.

Puerto Rico's financial problems, spurred by years of borrowing to try to combat economic stagnation, reached a crisis in recent months, as cash reserves dwindled and the island's own fiscal agent, the Government Development Bank, faced insolvency. In July, the territory defaulted on $779 million of its most senior debt.

The appeals court admitted Puerto Rico is in "dire financial straits," but called the tax "blunt and unnecessarily over-inclusive."

"It essentially establishes an irrebuttable presumption that all inter-corporate transfers to a Puerto Rico branch from related mainland entities are fraudulently priced to evade taxes," the court reasoned.

The island's outgoing governor, Alejandro Garcia Padilla, has called Puerto Rico's financial situation a "humanitarian crisis," while U.S. Congress earlier this year passed legislation bringing the island's finances under a federal oversight board.

Board members are expected to be appointed in September. Among the board's powers is the ability to force talks between the island and its creditors to negotiate cuts to Puerto Rico's debt.

(Reporting by Jonathan Stempel and Nick Brown in New York; editing by Daniel Bases and Grant McCool) 

Released: 2016-8-24T21:58:33.000Z 

Document LBA0000020160824ec8o017fy



Puerto Rico cannot enforce a Wal-Mart tax -U.S. appeals court

137 words
24 August 2016
03:57 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 

Aug 24 (Reuters) - A U.S. appeals court said on Wednesday that Puerto Rico could not force Wal-Mart Stores Inc's    affiliate there to pay a special corporate tax that the retailer said was discriminatory and violated the U.S. Constitution.                              

The 1st U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Boston upheld a lower court order blocking the U.S. territory from imposing its alternative minimum tax against Wal-Mart Puerto Rico Inc.                              

The appeals court called the tax "facially discriminatory," saying it taxed only cross-border transactions between a Puerto Rico corporate taxpayer and a related entity located elsewhere.                              

It said that did not meet the extra level of scrutiny needed to survive under the "dormant" Commerce Clause.                              

Released: 2016-8-24T21:57:04.000Z 

Document LBA0000020160824ec8o0172o

Man accused of Wal-Mart killing makes his first court appearance ; Kenneth Briggs Jr. stands accused in the death of Roger Nelsen, who was found in the parking lot.

SCOTT DOLAN 
By SCOTT DOLAN Staff Writer 
683 words
23 August 2016
Portland Press Herald
PTPH
2.B
English
© 2016 Portland Press Herald. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved. 

A homeless man accused of killing a man found in a pool of blook in a Wal-Mart parking lot in Falmouth is scheduled to appear in court Monday to face a charge of murder. Kenneth Briggs, 27, formerly of Portland, was arrested Friday and charged with the Aug. 15 fatal stabbing of Roger Nelsen, a 67-year-old man who had been living in his car.

The man accused of murdering a man who was found bleeding in a Wal-Mart parking lot in Falmouth last week was ordered held without bail Monday during his initial court appearance.

Kenneth Briggs Jr., 27, formerly of Portland but now homeless, said nothing during the brief hearing before Justice Lance Walker at the Cumberland County Courthouse in Portland. He was also ordered to undergo a mental exam.

Briggs was arrested Friday and charged in the Aug. 15 stabbing of Roger Nelsen, 67, who had been living in his car.

Court documents detailing the case against Briggs remained sealed Monday. It is unclear how police tied Briggs to the killing and what motive he may have had.

Nelsen was found lying in a pool of blood by a Falmouth police officer on patrol. Nelsen appeared to have stab wounds and was able to speak with the officer briefly before losing consciousness. He was taken to Maine Medical Center in Portland, where he died Aug. 17.

Briggs and Nelsen previously lived together, Maine State Police said.

The prosecutor, Assistant Attorney General Megan Elam, said at Monday's hearing that the state was lifting its request to keep police affidavits impounded. But Briggs' attorneys, Molly Butler Bailey and Heather Gonzales, asked the judge to keep the records sealed for now.

Briggs was not required to enter a plea to the murder charge because the case against him has yet to be presented to a grand jury.

Briggs also faces a charge of felony theft and Butler Bailey entered a not guilty plea on his behalf in that case. Throughout the hearing, Briggs, wearing a suit and tie, stood between his attorneys and whispered with them occasionally.

In the theft case, Briggs is accused of stealing from Nelsen on April 7. Details of that case were also unavailable Monday. The clerk's office was still sorting through the case files by the time the courthouse closed to determine which documents in each case remained sealed. More documents may be released Tuesday, but the affidavits in the murder case, which would contain the bulk of the information related to Nelsen's death, will probably not be available for a month or more.

The prosecutor and defense attorneys requested jointly that Briggs undergo a mental examination to determine whether he is competent to stand trial and whether he has the capacity to be held criminally responsible.

"Our concerns are significant enough that we have requested a psychological evaluation," Butler Bailey said outside the courtroom after the hearing. She declined to comment further, because she and Gonzales were only assigned to the case Monday and are still reviewing it. Elam also declined to comment.

Both Briggs and Nelsen have prior criminal records in Maine.

Nelsen was required by law to register as a sex offender because of a 2006 conviction in federal court on a child pornography charge. In that case, he was sentenced to serve 33 month in federal prison.

Briggs has a lengthy adult criminal record dating to 2009 on charges including theft, burglary of a motor vehicle, criminal mischief, criminal trespassing, violating the conditions of his release on bail, disorderly conduct, violating protection from harassment orders and terrorizing.

Briggs was sentenced most recently in Belfast Superior Court to serve 60 days in jail for violating a protection from abuse order taken out against him by a woman there. Scott Dolan can be contacted at 791-6304 or at: sdolan@pressherald.com Twitter: @scottddolan

Document PTPH000020160823ec8n00004



Today's Must-Reads For Entrepreneurs: Kobe Bryant's New Fund, Wal-Mart's Crime Problem, Inventing The SuperSoaker

Loren Feldman, Forbes Staff 
1,647 words
22 August 2016
Forbes.com
FBCOM
English
© 2016 Forbes LLC 

News and insights from around the Web:

Bubblewatch

Kobe Bryant announces a $100 million venture fund: “Current investments include sports media website The Players Tribune, videogame designer Scopely, legal-services company LegalZoom, a telemarketing-software firm called RingDNA and a home-juicing company called Juicero. In an interview, the two men said their skills complement each other, with Mr. Stibel bringing experience building companies and Mr. Bryant contributing a creative, if obsessive, flair for details around marketing, branding and storytelling. He, in fact, designed the company’s new logo with inspiration from piano keys.”

Startups

Bay Area startups are opening low-cost outposts in Arizona: “Housing is much cheaper. The median home price in the Phoenix metropolitan area is $221,000, according to Zillow. In San Francisco, it is $812,000. For Ms. Rogers and others, that is a far bigger perk than an extra vacation or a raise in California. Instead of renting a rundown house in Redwood City and commuting an hour or more to work, she now lives 10 minutes from the office in a house that is twice the size — with mortgage payments that are half the cost of her California rent. ‘When I had a kid, it forced the decision for me,’ Ms. Rogers said.”

Here’s how the daughter of Vietnamese immigrants pitches her startup, which makes combat-fitness gear for women: “There are 17.5 million women around the world who do combat fitness. So what I like to say when I talk to investors is, make a reasonable assumption that the average woman spends $120 a quarter on fitness gear, whether equipment or new tights, and that’s $8.4 billion.”

Small Business

The owner of a small-town funeral home talks about how the business has changed: “The following day, Debbie Murphy was returning from another lunch at McCreary County’s only vegan restaurant. To Murphy, burying people has been a constant education, and one of the things she has learned from burying so many middle-aged women is that she doesn’t want to be one of them. Her own mother died at 51 of breast cancer. Then came her sister-in-law: dead at 50 when Murphy’s nephew, high on drugs and hallucinating, shot her to death in her bed. Fifty-six years old now, Murphy wears a patch on her shoulder that releases nutrients into her body. In the evenings, she practices Pilates. In the mornings, she makes a shake from a pouch of antioxidant leaf powder. And lunch is at the vegan restaurant, where she always orders the special. Back in the funeral home now after some ratatouille, she was at her desk when a young woman walked in carrying a pair of blue jeans, a white button-down shirt, a black tank top and a pair of gold hoop earrings. … She handed over the bundle of clothing, and Murphy unfurled the jeans. They were well-worn. The white shirt had cigarette-burn holes on the front.”

Disruption

The inventor of the SuperSoaker, an African-American from Alabama who worked for NASA and helped test the first Stealth bomber, explains how he got his idea to market: “There followed seven years of frustration and false starts. I don’t know what it is with me, but I’ve never been very good at giving up. Then, in February 1989 I was walking the halls of the American International Toy Fair in New York, the world’s largest toy fair, when I ran into a company called Larami. At the time, they were knock-off merchants – they would look at what the major toy companies were making, and what had TV advertising, then they would make cheap copies and grab 10% of the market. At the toy fair, the vice president, a guy called Al Davis, told me that the idea of a really high-performance water pistol was interesting. ‘I can’t really review a product here,’ he told me, ‘but if you’re ever in Philadelphia, where our headquarters are, I’d be happy to talk to you. Drop in and see us.’ So I said, ‘Ok, great.’ But just as I was turning to leave, he called after me and said, ‘By the way – don’t make a special trip.’”

Hampton Creek is reportedly under investigation for faking its own revenue: “Hampton Creek has raised more than $220 million and Tetrick, the firm’s founder and chief executive officer, told employees last week that he expects to raise another round of financing by early next month that will value the company at $1.1 billion, a person who attended the meeting told Bloomberg. In late 2014, Hampton Creek raised $90 million from venture capital heavyweights Founders Fund, Horizon’s Ventures and Khosla Ventures as well as Salesforce.com Inc. co-founder Marc Benioff and Facebook co-founder Eduardo Saverin. Also that year, Hampton Creek instructed workers to buy back its own products from supermarkets, Bloomberg reported this month. Hampton Creek said at the time that the self-purchases were primarily for a quality-assurance program designed to understand the product from a customer’s perspective.”

In Philadelphia, the price of a taxi medallion has fallen from $545,000 to $10,000: “At 57, Odeniyi had hoped to retire in a couple of years, having worked in the taxi business since 1983. But Uber has altered his plan. He bought his certificate in 1990 for $14,500, which he paid for over two years, he said. When his two kids – now fully grown and Ivy League-educated – were still in school, the business helped him be both career man and dad. But if he were to retire now, Odeniyi said, he’d end up in line at a soup kitchen. Uber’s legalization was a blow to the taxi industry, not only because of increased competition, but also because taxis are subject to regulations that Uber isn’t. Each year, medallion owners must pay an assessment fee, which was $1,819 per cab in fiscal year 2017 (up from $1,721 in 2016). Twice a year, cabs need to be inspected for $75 to $100 each time, depending on milage and type of car. It costs $125 each year to apply to renew a driver’s certificate. Not to mention commercial insurance, which ranges from $5,000 to $7,000 annually, the PPA says. For UberX drivers? All it takes is whatever they pay for their personal car insurance, assuming they also have a smartphone and model year 2001 car or later, spokesman Craig Ewer said.”

Retail

The world’s largest retailer has a crime problem: “Ross likes to joke that the concentration of crime at Walmart makes his job easier. ‘I’ve got all my bad guys in one place,’ he says, flashing a bright smile. His squad’s sergeant, Robert Rohloff, a 34-year police veteran who has to worry about staffing, budgets, and patrolling the busiest commercial district in Tulsa, says there’s nothing funny about Walmart’s impact on public safety. He can’t believe, he says, that a multibillion-dollar corporation isn’t doing more to stop crime. Instead, he says, it offloads the job to the police at taxpayers’ expense. ‘It’s ridiculous—we are talking about the biggest retailer in the world,’ says Rohloff. ‘I may have half my squad there for hours.’”

Human Resources

Some small business are restoring group health coverage: “Questions about the merits of individual versus group coverage are intensifying as changes continue to roil the insurance market. Michael Stahl, a senior vice president at HealthMarkets Inc., an agency that works with small businesses across the country, says most small businesses making changes continue to shift to individual coverage because their workers are eligible for significant government subsidies. ‘But the trajectory of that is slowing,’ he said. For the first time, ‘we are seeing a reverse migration back from individual to group.’”

A new study questions whether banning the box actually increases discrimination? “Before the regulations took effect, candidates with criminal histories were far less likely to be called back, irrespective of race. After the regulations took effect, though, things changed. Lacking the ability to discern criminal history, employers became much less likely to call back any apparently black applicant. They seemed to treat all black applicants now as if they might have a criminal past.”

Is affordable child care the secret to a better economy? “The losses are even more profound when multiplied over the economy. International comparisons indicate that more family-friendly policies in the United States, including quality child care, would allow roughly 5.5 million more women to work, assuming the economy was adding jobs at a reasonable pace. All else being equal, that surge could generate an astounding $500 billion a year in economic growth, or about 3.5 percent of gross domestic product.”

Politics

Wired has endorsed Hillary Clinton: “Clinton also has ideas that clear away stumbling blocks for entrepreneurs and strivers. She proposes linking entre­preneurship to forgiveness of student loans, as a way to help young people start businesses. Clinton favors net neutrality—giving every packet of data on the Internet the same priority, regardless of whether they originate from a media corporation or from you and me. She has proposed easier paths to legal immigration for people with science, technology, and engineering degrees. And she has spent my entire adult life trying to work out how to give the maximum number of Americans access to health care; she will con­tinue to strengthen the Affordable Care Act, which among other things has helped people walk away from crappy, dead-end jobs by alleviating the fear that they’ll lose their insurance.”

Document FBCOM00020160822ec8m000e1



Retail Features - Retail
Wal-Mart to Pay $90,000 to Settle Disability    Discrimination  Suit

Kristi Ellis 
576 words
19 August 2016
WWD
WWD
English
© 2016 Fairchild Publishing, LLC, a subsidiary of Penske Business Media. All rights reserved. 

WASHINGTON — Wal-Mart Stores Inc. has agreed to pay $90,000 to settle a disability discrimination lawsuit filed by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.

The settlement stems from a lawsuit the EEOC filed against Wal-Mart in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois in 2014, alleging the retail giant violated federal discrimination law after it fired an “intellectually disabled” employee working at one of its stores in Rockford, Ill.

According to the EEOC’s lawsuit, William Clark, who has had disabilities since childhood, began working for Wal-Mart in 1994. As a workplace accommodation, the EEOC said Clark needed a written list of daily tasks. The EEOC alleged that Wal-Mart provided Clark with a list of tasks for years, but “at some point the company decided to stop providing Clark the accommodation needed.”

Wal-Mart  subsequently terminated Clark for “supposed performance issues,” the EEOC said.

“Walmart does not condone or tolerate discrimination of any type and our company has thousands of associates who regularly perform their jobs with reasonable accommodations which we have provided,” a Wal-Mart spokesman said. “Mr. Clark never requested an accommodation. His repeated instances of improperly handling food product led to his termination under our progressive discipline policy. While we deny that discrimination in any way played a part in Mr. Clark’s termination, we are glad we resolved the matter.”

The EEOC called into question Clark’s termination, stating the “purported failure to perform certain job duties” was due to Wal-Mart “no longer providing Clark an accommodation.”

The agency said the Wal-Mart’s alleged actions violated the Americans with Disabilities Act, which requires employers to provide disabled employees with reasonable accommodations that enable them to perform their job duties.

Wal-Mart settled the suit as part of a consent decree signed by U.S. District Judge Philip G. Reinhard on Aug. 10, the agency said.

The EEOC said the two-year decree stipulates additional, non-monetary relief to “improve the Wal-Mart workplace.”

“Under the decree, Wal-Mart will train employees on disability discrimination and requests for reasonable accommodations under the ADA,” the EEOC said. “Wal-Mart will also monitor requests for accommodation and complaints of disability discrimination and report those to the EEOC.”

The Wal-Mart spokesman said the company “will undertake additional ADA training at the individual store where Mr. Clark worked.”

“The ADA provides the same standard of protection to employees with intellectual disabilities and to workers with physical disabilities,” said Julianne Bowman, EEOC’s district director in Chicago. “Employers must provide disabled employees with reasonable accommodations if they are necessary to enable the employee to perform his or her essential job duties. Here, a simple written list would have provided Mr. Clark with the accommodation he needed, and he wouldn’t have been terminated.”

“Wal-Mart failed Mr. Clark, who had worked for the company for 18 years,” claimed John Hendrickson, regional attorney at the EEOC’s Chicago office. “Rather than provide a simple, effective and inexpensive accommodation in the form of a written task list, Wal-Mart fired Mr. Clark when he allegedly failed to perform his job duties. Both the failure to provide an accommodation and Mr. Clark’s firing violated the ADA, and we are glad that with today’s settlement, Mr. Clark will receive monetary recompense from Wal-Mart.”

Document WWD0000020160819ec8j000jj

News
There may be another woman in Downing Street, but equal pay is still a major issue for employers

Michael Delaney 
404 words
18 August 2016
Watford Observer
NQTJ
English
© Copyright 2016 Newsquest Digital Media 

The subject of equal pay has returned to the top of the news lately. New Prime Minister Theresa May spoke of her desire to make progress on the issue upon taking office

Little surprise then that there is significant interest – from employers and lawyers alike – in a major equal pay case currently progressing through the courts. In Asda v Brierley, over 7,000 - mostly female employees - brought equal pay claims against the supermarket Asda.

The case - described by Lord Falconer QC, counsel for the supermarket and a former Lord Chancellor, as "by far the most important, complex and financially significant equal pay claim ever pursued in the private sector" - has already reached the Court of Appeal on a preliminary issue. The case highlights the increasing focus on equal pay in the private sector.

The claimants work in hourly paid jobs in the supermarket's retail stores. They claim that the work they do is of equal value to work undertaken - overwhelmingly by men - in Asda's distribution depots. They claim that despite being of equal value, they are paid less than those working in distribution, and that this amounts to a breach of the equal pay clauses of the Equality Act 2010.

Equal pay issues in the private sector rank high on the list of concerns of many employers with large work forces, particularly those involved in low paid sectors such as care and security. The focus on this area is increasing with the introduction of the gender pay gap regulations.

The Asda case is unlikely to be a one off, and further equal pay litigation against private employers should be expected. We are aware of other cases in the local tribunal involving some of our clients. With this in mind, employers should act proactively by undertaking an audit of their staff, the roles undertaken and pay, reviewing the results, considering the reasons for any discrepancies that are found and whether those reasons are potentially discriminatory or can be justified as well as addressing any risks that are identified. In standard cases claims can go back six years from the date of the claim.

This publication is for guidance only. We would always recommend that you take legal advice on your particular circumstances.

Pick up this week's Observer for the next column.

Document NQTJ000020160818ec8i0005l



COLUMN: Solve the problem of food waste: eat the ugly

644 words
15 August 2016
U-Wire
UWIR
English
© 2016, M2 Communications. All rights reserved. 

North Carolina State University ; Raleigh, NC - opinion

By Laura Villegas Ortiz

Last week, Wal-Mart, America’s largest grocer, became the first retailer to sell blemished apples from Washington state, under the brand “I’m Perfect,”as part of their larger pilot effort of selling ugly fruits and vegetables. Ugly fruits and vegetables are the daily bread on the farm. However, this so-called cosmetically imperfect produce often ends up in landfills, just because of how it looks.

Global food waste is a big issue for environmental, humanitarian, cultural, economic and public health reasons. During the 2015 Climate Change Conference in Paris, the Obama administration and the UN pledged to cut avoidable food waste in half by 2030. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, around 4 billion tons of food are produced for human consumption around the world annually and approximately one third of that is wasted. Waste happens everywhere along the production chain and, interestingly, it is equally pervasive among developed and developing countries.

In developing countries, food waste can be mostly attributed to poorly developed infrastructure impeding the adequate storage of food or delaying its arrival to the market place. An unnecessarily large amount of food, sometimes up to 40 percent of perishable produce, doesn’t make it to the market and ends up rotting in the fields, trucks or warehouses.

In contrast, food waste in industrialized economies and affluent communities around the world is mostly explained by consumer behavior and practices in both the retail sector and the hospitality industry.

Although one of the biggest sources of waste in industrialized economies is household waste, not all food waste is food that gets thrown away. Some of the food gets wasted before it even reaches the household. The fact that consumer preferences vary drastically with external factors like the weather also explain why much of fresh produce goes bad in the supermarket’s shelves. However, aesthetics plays an even larger part.

In the US, losses vary from crop to crop, but up to 20 percent of harvested crops are rejected by retailers because they are not visually appealing to the public. In other words, grocery stores and supermarkets know their customers won’t purchase produce that doesn’t have the “right” shape, color or size that cosmetic standards impose. Some estimate that about 60 million tons of produce worth about $160 billion are wasted by retailers and consumers every year. Simply put, Americans just don’t eat ugly produce. This discrimination based on looks is unjustified.

Many of us in modern urbanized societies have grown up largely detached from agriculture and are largely unaware of what a real vegetable looks like when it’s just out of the ground. “Ugly” fruits and vegetables look a bit weird to you and me because we know nothing about agricultural production. But the truth is that they are perfectly edible, tasty and nutritious — as someone in a different context put it, every inch of them is perfect from the bottom to the top.

Food waste is a big deal, globally. It is not just about wasting food, it’s about wasting money, fueling a culture of mindless consumption, imposing psychological and sometimes moral distress on those concerned with global equality, and causing irreversible damage to the environment.

There are multiple layers to this onion, and multiple approaches to improve the situation. That a store of the size and with the outreach of Wal-Mart has taken the initiative to bet against the public perception of beauty brings hope for those willing to jump on the bandwagon of tackling the problem of global food waste. Only you know your favorite villain, but this time, I think Wal-Mart should get a pass.

((Distributed for UWIRE via M2 Communications www.m2.com))

Document UWIR000020160815ec8f000mt



POLICE OFFICER'S PARTNER JAILED FOR ASKING HAIRDRESSER TO MAKE FALSE STATEMENT

By Lauren Brown, Press Association      
435 words
11 August 2016
12:18 PM
Press Association Regional Newswire - North West
PARNOW
English
(c)2016, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved      

The partner of a decorated police officer has been sentenced to 12 months in prison after getting her hairdresser to provide a false statement to police because her husband's "job was on the line".

Mother-of-four Zoe Wilkinson, 30, was jailed at Preston Crown Court for perverting the course of justice after asking her hairdresser and friend Natalie Leicester, 32, to say she had witnessed a security guard assault Police Constable Richard Pendlebury after he was accused of shoplifting in Asda.

Mr Pendlebury, 42, a serving officer for 20 years had been stopped by staff at the Pilsworth Road store in Bury who searched his child's changing bag to find a woman's top, dress and shoes worth £24.

But following a trial, the Greater Manchester Police custody officer - who had helped front an anti-shoplifting campaign and had been honoured with a Chief Constable's Commendation for extreme courage and bravery after being stabbed and sprayed with CS gas, was cleared by jurors of the theft.

During the trial, Leicester gave evidence to say that Wilkinson had told her she had been assaulted by Asda security guard Naseem Sher, and that Pendlebury had tried to defuse the situation and had been arrested.

She said Wilkinson was to tell her that the CCTV from the store had "gone missing" and that the security guard was pressing charges.

The hairdresser said she had felt "upset" for her friend and agreed to take a pre-typed statement to police saying she had witnessed the events including Mr Sher "grabbing" at Wilkinson's arm as she held her baby.

The two women pleaded guilty to conspiracy to perverting the course of justice relating to the events of September 19 2014.

Leicester was sentenced to 12 months in prison suspended for two years, and must also complete 150 hours unpaid work.

Mr Pendlebury, who said he believed the leopard print skirt, black top and shoes were what Wilkinson was returning days after she purchased the same outfit, was found not guilty of theft and conspiracy to pervert the course of justice following trial at the same court.

An allegation that he assaulted the security guard outside the store was dropped by the prosecution during the trial.

The couple, who had also been charged with intending to pervert the course of justice by making false allegations that he and Wilkinson were the victims of harassment from the same security guard, Naseem Sher, were found not guilty by the jury.

ends

Document PARNOW0020160811ec8b000gp



POLICE OFFICER'S PARTNER JAILED FOR ASKING HAIRDRESSER TO MAKE FALSE STATEMENT

By Lauren Brown, Press Association      
435 words
11 August 2016
12:18 PM
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
English
(c)2016, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved      

The partner of a decorated police officer has been sentenced to 12 months in prison after getting her hairdresser to provide a false statement to police because her husband's "job was on the line".

Mother-of-four Zoe Wilkinson, 30, was jailed at Preston Crown Court for perverting the course of justice after asking her hairdresser and friend Natalie Leicester, 32, to say she had witnessed a security guard assault Police Constable Richard Pendlebury after he was accused of shoplifting in Asda.

Mr Pendlebury, 42, a serving officer for 20 years had been stopped by staff at the Pilsworth Road store in Bury who searched his child's changing bag to find a woman's top, dress and shoes worth £24.

But following a trial, the Greater Manchester Police custody officer - who had helped front an anti-shoplifting campaign and had been honoured with a Chief Constable's Commendation for extreme courage and bravery after being stabbed and sprayed with CS gas, was cleared by jurors of the theft.

During the trial, Leicester gave evidence to say that Wilkinson had told her she had been assaulted by Asda security guard Naseem Sher, and that Pendlebury had tried to defuse the situation and had been arrested.

She said Wilkinson was to tell her that the CCTV from the store had "gone missing" and that the security guard was pressing charges.

The hairdresser said she had felt "upset" for her friend and agreed to take a pre-typed statement to police saying she had witnessed the events including Mr Sher "grabbing" at Wilkinson's arm as she held her baby.

The two women pleaded guilty to conspiracy to perverting the course of justice relating to the events of September 19 2014.

Leicester was sentenced to 12 months in prison suspended for two years, and must also complete 150 hours unpaid work.

Mr Pendlebury, who said he believed the leopard print skirt, black top and shoes were what Wilkinson was returning days after she purchased the same outfit, was found not guilty of theft and conspiracy to pervert the course of justice following trial at the same court.

An allegation that he assaulted the security guard outside the store was dropped by the prosecution during the trial.

The couple, who had also been charged with intending to pervert the course of justice by making false allegations that he and Wilkinson were the victims of harassment from the same security guard, Naseem Sher, were found not guilty by the jury.

ends

Document PRESSA0020160811ec8b0060p

current
Wal-Mart Manager Sues Employer Over Religious Bias Claims

BY P.J. D'ANNUNZIO Of the Legal Staff 
491 words
5 August 2016
The Legal Intelligencer
LINTEL
1
Volume 254; Issue 25
English
Copyright 2016 LexisNexis, a Division of Reed Elsevier, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

A Wal-Mart store manager who is a Seventh-day Adventist sued the company on religious discrimination grounds, claiming he was demoted for his observance of the Sabbath.

Plaintiff Gordon Fields filed his suit against Wal-Mart in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, alleging that his employer, which previously accommodated his inability to work Friday evenings and Saturdays, rescinded that accommodation and issued him an ultimatum.

As a Seventh-day Adventist, Fields observes a period of rest from sundown Friday to sundown Saturday. While Fields was originally allowed to take off on the Sabbath, according to his complaint, a new human resources manager told him that the company could no longer allow that for a manager, and he would either have to work on the Sabbath or be demoted in order to maintain his religious accommodation.

Fields' lawyer, Jennifer Prior of Kraemer, Manes & Associates in King of Prussia, said the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission initially tried to resolve the dispute, but no compromise was reached. The commission ultimately issued the plaintiff a right to sue letter.

"I'm surprised that Wal-Mart wasn't willing to work something out at the EEOC level considering we have documentation that he alerted his supervisors of the issues regarding his religious accommodation," Prior said.

Wal-Mart had not made any court filings as of press time.

"Wal-Mart does not condone or tolerate discrimination or retaliation of any kind and we have a long-standing practice of accommodating our associates' religious beliefs and practices," a Wal-Mart spokesperson said in an emailed statement. "We take the matter seriously, and we will respond appropriately with the court."

Fields initially requested accommodation for his observance of the Sabbath when he was hired as an associate in the shoe department at Wal-Mart's Norristown location in 2006, according to the complaint. The accommodation was granted, and remained from 2006 to 2014.

When Fields was promoted to assistant manager and transferred to the Wyncote store in 2014, he was assured by his former HR manager that his religious accommodation would continue, the complaint continued. Upon his reassignment to a new HR manager, that changed.

Fields complained to the new HR manager, who "denied his accommodation, stating that such an accommodation granted to a manager, would cause an undue burden on the business and the other managers. He also stated that he would not transfer Fields to any assistant manager trainee or assistant manager positions in his market, in order for him to receive his accommodation."

According to the complaint, Fields received a poor performance report a week after he complained to management about the lack of religious accommodation.

P.J. D'Annunzio can be contacted at 215-557-2315 or pdannunzio@alm.com. Follow him on Twitter @PJDannunzioTLI. 

Document LINTEL0020160805ec8500002



Bangladesh Canvas: AFWA levels allegations on Walmart's Bangladesh suppliers

Distributed by Contify.com 
548 words
1 August 2016
Apparel Online
ATAPAR
English
Copyright © 2016. Apparel Online 

A report, 'Precarious Work in the Walmart Global Value Chain' by Asia Floor Wage Alliance (AFWA) has claimed serious workers' rights violation in the garment factories of Bangladesh working for Walmart. Some of the allegations claim that employers expel workers without prior notice and dismiss them without paying due wages and benefits. Besides, workers did not get any casual leave, sick leave or annual leave(s). The report says that 62 per cent of workers do overtime beyond the legal limit and 29 per cent do at least 4 to 5 hours of overtime per day - more than twice the legal overtime limit. 66 per cent of workers reported that overtime is mandatory at their factories.

There are many top companies mentioned in the report, like Ananta Garments Ltd., Nassa Apparels Ltd., Dird Group and many more. This is the third report in the series. Earlier two reports were focused on Indian, Indonesian, and Cambodian companies engaged in manufacturing for GAP and H&M.; Bangladesh Nari Progati Sangha (BNPS), an activist women's organization is also associated with AFWA for preparing this report. While reacting on the report Col. KAB Mainuddin (Retd.), ED, Dird Group (Savar Zone) strongly denied all the allegations. He told Apparel Online, "It is completely a false statement for our organization. We are truly surprised to see such types of allegations being made against us. We always treat workers with humanity and the workers are provided with leave following the law of the land. We have an active elected Participation Committee and Anti-harassment Committee in our factory, we do have freedom of association policy and our workers are free to join in any trade unions at their will."

The report is based upon research on violations of international labour standards in Walmart garment production factories conducted between December 2012 and May 2016. It also claims that the survey of 121 workers selected randomly from 47 factories from the list of 280 factories discovered to be Walmart suppliers after extensive field investigations. Respondents were from Dhaka (50 per cent) and other major districts in Bangladesh where readymade garments are produced, including Gazipur (42 per cent), and Narayanganj (8 per cent).

Earlier, in a separate report on the Indian garment industry, AFWA levelled similar charges against about 24 Indian apparel exporters of Tirupur, Vapi and Noida including few big names like Eastman Exports, Opera Clothing, and Parmeshwar Creations. The report underlined that in India, some workers were made to work on Sundays and national holidays 'in sweltering heat, without adequate supply of clean drinking water or any breaks'. Workers have been cited saying that at times they were made to work 24 hours at a stretch. They also complained about being inadequately compensated for overtime work - a practice very common in the garment industry.

However, on reaching out to the concerned garment manufacturers, both in India and Bangladesh, Apparel Online found the reports are rather lopsided. It has not only failed to cover the number of factories as the report claims but neither did cover a substantial number of respondents or get the factory management's perspective on the so-called malpractices, to present a balanced and neutral view on the issues.

Document ATAPAR0020160810ec8100031



Creep fined after buying 20 pairs of Asda knickers and leaving them in women's homes

Margi Murphy      
277 words
27 July 2016
03:05 PM
dailystar.co.uk
DAICO
English
Copyright 2016      

A MAN bought more than TWENTY pairs of knickers from supermarkets to leave at random women's homes, a court heard.

BPM

CREEPY: One woman found knickers hanging on the handle of her front door

"Lonely" John Taylor, 57, knew none of his victims – and didn’t even leave a note with the creepy surprise.

All were new and un-used undies from Sainsbury’s, Asda and Tesco.

One victim was a 75-year-old who found a pair of knickers dangling from her front door handle.

She later found four more pairs of underwear in a carrier bag stuffed into her letterbox.

Taylor's lawyer

He was caught out after another woman he regularly delivered lingerie too installed CCTV.

Taylor, from Chelmsley Wood, Birmingham, admitted two charges of harassment at Birmingham Magistrates' Court.

He was handed a 12-month restraining order banning him from contacting either of the victims, both from Shirley, west Mids.

GEORGEATASDA

BY GEORGE: Taylor bought more than 20 pairs of undies Heidi Klum models Intimates lingerie pictures

He was issued with a 12-month community order, fined £120 and ordered to pay £135 costs.

Lawyer Edward Ball said Taylor was lonely following his divorce.

He added: “He is thoroughly ashamed.”

A perv was caught stashing women's underwear in his self-curated "lingerie museum" last year.

Related articles Serial killer sickos: Twisted Brits buying 'Murderabilia' ― and it's legal I aim to tease: Love Island's Liana strips down to her undies – and flirts with TV hunk Jess Impiazzi exposes knickers in boozy fail

Document DAICO00020160727ec7r005h9



News,UK News
Loner left more than 20 pairs of Asda and Tesco knickers at homes of female victims

By Martin Fricker      
219 words
27 July 2016
10:01 AM
Mirror.co.uk
MIRUK
English
© 2016 Mirror Group Ltd      

John Taylor, from Birmingham, did not know either of the victims and left no note with his unwanted deliveries

A loner left more than 20 pairs of supermarket knickers at the homes of two women, a court heard.

John Taylor, 57, did not know either of the victims and left no note with his unwanted deliveries .

The undies were brand new and bought from supermarkets including Sainsbury’s, Asda and Tesco.

Taylor was caught after delivering pants to the home of one victim who had installed CCTV to catch him.

His other victim was a 75-year-old woman who found a pair of knickers dangling from her front door handle.

The terrified pensioner later found four more pairs of pants in a carrier bag stuffed into her letterbox.

Taylor, from Chelmsley Wood, Birmingham, admitted two charges of harassment.

He was handed a 12-month restraining order banning him from contacting either victim, both from Shirley, West Mids.

The loner was also issued with a 12-month community order, fined £120 and ordered to pay £135 costs.

His lawyer Edward Ball said Taylor was lonely following the breakdown of his marriage.

He added: “He is thoroughly ashamed."

Document MIRUK00020160727ec7r002mk



News
Loner harassed Shirley women by pushing knickers through their letterboxes

By Jane Tyler      
487 words
26 July 2016
01:30 PM
birminghammail.co.uk
EVEMONL
English
© 2016 Trinity Mirror      

John Taylor, 57, bought the lingerie from supermarkets including Asda and Tesco

A lingerie-loving loner left more than 20 pairs of pants at the homes of two women because he was “lonely” after the break-up of his relationship, a court heard.

John Taylor, 57, did not know either of the victims and left no note with his unwanted deliveries in Shirley, Solihull.

Birmingham magistrates heard the knickers were brand new, unworn and bought from local supermarkets, including Sainsbury’s, Asda and Tesco.

Taylor, of Bosworth Drive, Chelmsley Wood, was caught after delivering pants to the home of one victim who had installed CCTV to catch him.

He handed a 12 month restraining order banning him from contacting either victim after he admitted two charges of harassment.

He was also issued with a 12-month community order, fined £120, and ordered to pay £135 costs and a £60 victim surcharge.

Phone pervert filmed up women's skirts on escalators at Grand Central and Bullring

Magistrates heard the offences occurred in two roads in Shirley, close to where Taylor was living at the time, between January and March this year.

Helen Shipley, prosecuting, said the first victim was a 75-year-old woman who lived alone in a bungalow.

She first found a pair of knickers dangling from her front door handle in January and then on February 4 discovered four pair of pants in a carrier bag stuffed into her letterbox.

A week later she opened her front door to find a Tesco carrier bag containing more women’s underwear and on Valentine’s Day a bag was left on her front door handle, filled with eight pairs of pants.

On February 26 another bag appeared, this one containing three pairs of knickers.

WATCH: Help West Midlands Police catch Most Wanted suspects

The OAP alerted police and Solihull Council. Its housing department installed a spyhole camera in her front door.

Taylor also targeted a second victim, aged 39, who was first targeted by Taylor on February 15 when the knickers were left on the handle of her front door.

She assumed it was a Valentine’s gift left at the wrong address, but then on March 18 her partner found two pairs of knickers in their porch.

The couple installed CCTV cameras outside their house to try and catch the culprit - and later caught Taylor on camera.

He was arrested on April 6 and at first denied the offences. But his identity was later confirmed by the CCTV footage.

Miss Shipley said he had no previous convictions, apart from a caution for shoplifting.

Taylor’s solicitor, Edward Ball, said his client’s motivation was “loneliness” following the breakdown of his long-term relationship.

“He is thoroughly ashamed and was a very lonely man at the time he committed these offences,” he said.

Document EVEMONL020160726ec7q001b9

Search Summary

 All of these words

     At least one of these words
discrimination discriminatory discriminate discriminates discriminated discriminating harassment
     None of these words
"price discrimination"
     This exact phrase

     Date
07/13/2016 to 09/11/2016
     Source
All Sources
     Author
All Authors
     Company
Walmart Inc
     Subject
All Subjects
     Industry
All Industries
     Region
All Regions
     Language
English
     Results Found
23
     Timestamp
20 June 2023 9:15 AM
    
