 
•	SUNRISE: Man sought after theft of shotgun at Walmart
•	UPDATE 1-Judge thwarts Option One mortgage class-action suit
•	MAN HELD IN ASSAULT ON ROCHELLE PARK OFFICER
•	Wal-Mart Settles EEOC Lawsuit On Refusal To Return Employee To Work Without Full Release
•	Big and small in retail
•	Asda worker in tribunal claiming speech impediment caused his sacking; Advance Media Information; Future News Item; Reading Employment...
•	Wal-Mart Settles EEOC Lawsuit for $50,000
•	Embracing Wal-Mart & Distinguishing McReynolds, The Seventh Circuit Reverses Class Certification Of Sprawling (And Stale) Classes
•	Bolden v. Walsh Construction Co.: The Seventh Circuit Further Clarifies the Supreme Court's Decision In Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes
•	UPDATE 1-Chile fines, blacklists Starbucks, Wal-Mart over labor practices
•	Proposed Legislation To Repeal Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes Goes Too Far
•	IN BRIEF; Illinois fined $250,000
•	THE WEEK
•	Costco plaintiffs in 'Dukes' shadow
•	Wal-Mart accused of violating ADA
•	Wal-Mart Stores sued by disabled customers over hard-to-reach payment machines
•	Wal-Mart Stores sued by disabled customers over hard-to-reach payment machines
•	Wal-Mart sued by disabled over payment machine access

News
SUNRISE: Man sought after theft of shotgun at Walmart

THE GAZETTE      
788 words
19 September 2012
The Gazette
CSP
n/a
English
© 2012 The Gazette. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.      

Colorado Springs police are looking for a man who allegedly broke into a gun display case and stole a shotgun from the Walmart at 1575 Space Center Drive early Wednesday morning.

The suspect, described as a white male in his mid-20s with brown hair, took off in a small silver sedan after the robbery at about 2 a.m., according to police.

Police are hoping to have more information about the suspect and the robbery after viewing surveillance video.

WEATHER

The National Weather Service forecasts a high temperature of 79 Wednesday with sunny skies in Colorado Springs. An overnight low of 46 expected.

AROUND COLORADO

Bicyclists angry over harassment from SUV driver

BOULDER (AP) - The Colorado State Patrol is looking for the driver of an SUV who followed several bicyclists down a highway honking and nearly forcing one of them off the road.

Dirk Friel posted a video on a website on Sunday showing the driver slowly trailing the cyclists as the driver repeatedly honks the horn at them throughout the two-minute clip.

Friel tells the Longmont Times-Call (http://tinyurl.com/9bxv32d) he was worried the driver would cause an accident. He says his biking companion had to use his hand to push off as the vehicle finally passed them.

The state patrol says it has received other complaints about the SUV and they are investigating.

Water regulators seek new approaches to drought

DENVER (AP) - Water regulators are asking farmers, ranchers and other water users to share their ideas for dealing with the current drought.

The Colorado Water Conservation Board is holding a conference Wednesday in Denver to share new approaches to drought preparedness.

They also want information on what drought may look like under future climate change conditions.

Nearly all of Colorado has been declared a crop disaster area, and the entire state has been in either a severe, extreme or exceptional drought this summer.

Supreme Court Justice Ginsburg speaking at CU

BOULDER (AP) - Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg is in Boulder for a speech at the University of Colorado.

The justice is keynote speaker Wednesday at the University of Colorado Law School's Gathering of the Bench and Bar Conference. Last year the speech was given by former Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens.

Ginsburg's remarks are open to the public, but the event is sold out.

Fort Collins racks up costs related to Obama trip

FORT COLLINS, Colo. (AP) - Colorado State University says it intends to bill President Barack Obama's re-election campaign for costs associated with his speech on the Fort Collins campus Aug. 28.

Spokesman Kyle Henley didn't immediately have a final tally of CSU's costs.

The Coloradoan reports (http://noconow.co/OYfsWy ) the city of Fort Collins spent $101,260 related to Obama's visit, mostly on police services during the trip, which included arrival at Fort Collins-Loveland Municipal Airport.

The Larimer County Sheriff's Office estimated its costs at around $30,000 and says it won't be reimbursed.

Fort Collins Controller and Assistant Finance Officer John Voss says the city hasn't assessed the possible economic benefits of Obama's trip.

Former prison officer sentenced to probation

GREELEY (AP) - A former officer at a privately run Colorado prison has been sentenced to four years of sex offender intensive supervised probation, after pleading guilty to having unlawful sexual contact with a prisoner.

The Greeley Tribune reports (http://bit.ly/PFjEKp ) Amber Gunter was sentenced Tuesday.

Gunter pleaded guilty in June to unlawful sexual contact of a prisoner and official misconduct. She was accused of having sexual contact with a convicted murderer from Anchorage, Alaska, while she worked at the Hudson Correctional Facility, which had a contract with Alaska to house 850 prisoners.

TODAY IN HISTORY

In 1959, Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev, visiting Los Angeles, reacted angrily upon being told that, for security reasons, he wouldn't get to visit Disneyland.

HAPPENINGS

-- Pikes Peak Computer Genealogists, 11:30 a.m.-3 p.m., Old Colorado City Library Branch, 2418 W. Pikes Peak Ave., free.

-- Mystery Book Group, noon, Cheyenne Mountain Branch Library, 1785 S. 8th St., free.

-- Farmers market, 3-7 p.m., Fine Arts Center Sculpture Garden, 30 W. Dale St.

-- World Traveler Book Club, "Solace" by Belinda McKeon, 3:30-5 p.m., East Library, 5550 N. Union Blvd., free.

-- "Arts Walk with Mayor Bach," 5-6 p.m., beginning at the City Administration Building, 30 S. Nevada Ave., free.

-- Tracy Quinn Band, 7-11 p.m., The Retired Enlisted Association Building, 834 Emory Circle.

-- Blues Jamm with 99%, 7 p.m., SouthSide Johnny's, 528 S. Tejon St.

Document CSP0000020120920e89j0000j



UPDATE 1-Judge thwarts Option One mortgage class-action suit

446 words
18 September 2012
04:32 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2012 Reuters Limited    

* African-American borrowers said they were overcharged

* Claims too disparate to allow class-action -judge

* Supreme Court case involving Wal-Mart limits class-actions

(Adds details from ruling, Wells Fargo case, byline)

By Jonathan Stempel

Sept 18 (Reuters) - A federal judge said African-American borrowers who obtained home loans from Option One Mortgage Corp may no longer pursue a class-action lawsuit accusing the lender of charging them more than white borrowers.

U.S. District Court Judge Rya Zobel in Boston reversed her March 2011 order certifying a class, citing an intervening U.S. Supreme Court decision involving Wal-Mart Stores Inc.

The decision could force borrowers to sue individually, resulting in lower recoveries and higher costs.

It follows a San Francisco judge's denial last September of class-action status to more than one million black and Hispanic borrowers accusing Wells Fargo & Co, the largest U.S. mortgage lender, of discriminating on rates and fees.

Gary Klein, a lawyer for plaintiffs in the Option One case, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Once owned by the tax preparation company H&R Block Inc , Option One is now known as Sand Canyon Corp.

Option One and H&R Block Mortgage Corp had been accused of giving brokers discretion to impose extra charges unrelated to borrowers' creditworthiness.

The plaintiffs said this resulted in African-American borrowers spending on average about $134 more per year on mortgages than similarly situated white borrowers.

But Zobel said it is no longer enough to show a disparate impact to win class-action status.

In the Wal-Mart case, the U.S. Supreme Court in June 2011 decertified a nationwide class of more than 1 million current and former female workers alleging gender bias.

It said Wal-Mart's policy of giving discretion to local managers over pay and promotions meant there was no common means of exercising that discretion.

"Plaintiffs' class in this case faces the same commonality problem as did the Wal-Mart class," Zobel wrote.

"Because plaintiffs do not claim that all of Option One's brokers exercised their discretion in the same way, they do not raise a single question common to all plaintiffs in the class," she said.

The case is Barrett et al v. Option One Mortgage Corp et al, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts, No. 08-10157.

(Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; editing by Leslie Adler, G Crosse)

OPTIONONE-CLASSACTION/    (UPDATE 1) | ABN | D | E | RBN | FMW | FSC | NAT | U | FWE | C | M | O | MTL | GRO | SOF | OIL | RNP | DNP | PTD | PCO    

Document LBA0000020120918e89i0016x



LOCAL
MAN HELD IN ASSAULT ON ROCHELLE PARK OFFICER

WILLIAM LAMB      
Email: lamb@northjersey.com      
377 words
15 September 2012
The Record
REC
L.1
English
© 2012 North Jersey Media Group Inc. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights reserved.      

ROCHELLE PARK -- A township man was arrested in Delaware on Friday, a day after he allegedly struck and injured a police officer with his car on Madison Avenue, authorities said.

Lawrence Nelson, 62, was arrested at a Walmart store in Camden, Del., around 3:30 p.m. Friday when he went to the store to have a prescription filled, said. Capt. Bill Flannelly of the Rochelle Park police.

Authorities said Nelson struck a Rochelle Park police officer, Christopher Rios, with his black 2008 Toyota Avalon on Thursday afternoon after Rios was dispatched to Nelson's house to respond to a harassment complaint.

Rios was thrown onto the hood of the car, and one of his hands became caught in a wheel well before he fell to the ground.

Authorities determined that Nelson had transferred a prescription from a pharmacy on Essex Street in Rochelle Park to the Walmart in Camden, Del., where he may have relatives, Flannelly said.

The Rochelle Park police called the store and asked the pharmacist to notify them when Nelson came in to pick up his prescription, Flannelly said. Nelson walked into the store while police were on the phone with the pharmacist, Flannelly said.

The police told the pharmacist to hang up and call 911. The pharmacist did so, and the Delaware State Police and the Camden police responded and arrested Nelson, Flannelly said. It was not immediately clear what kind of medication Nelson was purchasing, Flannelly said.

Police also used Nelson's cellphone, E-ZPass and bank records to track him to Delaware, Flannelly said.

"There's nowhere for these guys to hide," he said. "There's just too many electronics, too many ways to leave a trail."

Rios was treated for ligament damage at Hackensack University Medical Center and was released Thursday evening with a soft cast on one of his legs, Flannelly said.

Nelson was charged in Delaware with being a fugitive from justice. He is awaiting extradition to New Jersey, where he has been charged with fleeing from a police officer and aggravated assault with bodily injury while using a motor vehicle. His New Jersey bail has been set at $100,000.

Document REC0000020120916e89f0000i



Wal-Mart Settles EEOC Lawsuit On Refusal To Return Employee To Work Without Full Release

Joseph Nuzzo      
371 words
13 September 2012
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2012 Mondaq Ltd      

Retail giant Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. agreed to pay $50,000 in back pay and damages to settle a lawsuit filed by the EEOC, alleging that the company committed disability discrimination against a part-time employee with cerebral palsy in violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA").

The EEOC alleged that Wal-Mart fired the employee after it refused to allow her to return to work following medical leave because she could not return to work "without restrictions." The employee allegedly brought to the store manager a doctor's note requesting an accommodation in the form of periodic breaks so that she could be off her feet.

In the lawsuit, the EEOC alleged that the store failed to engage in the required interactive process, and, had it done so, Wal-Mart would have discovered that the employee's need for an accommodation was temporary. The EEOC also alleged that the company could have easily granted the accommodation request, rather than requiring the employee to return to work with no restrictions.

The parties were unable to settle the matter through conciliation prior to the EEOC filing suit.

Under the terms of the settlement, Wal-Mart must conduct live, annual ADA training of management employees in the New Mexico store where the incident occurred and post a readily visible notice of the EEOC settlement. Wal-Mart must also report any disability discrimination lawsuits or charges and disability accommodation requests by employees to the EEOC.

The lawsuit is reflective of the increased scrutiny that the EEOC has placed on policies that require employees to return from medical leaves with "full releases."

Originally published on the Employer's Law Blog

www.daypitney.com

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Mr Joseph Nuzzo

Day Pitney LLP

7 Times Square

New York

NY

10036

UNITED STATES

Tel: 2122975800

Fax: 2129162940

E-mail: Pmanuele@daypitney.com

URL: www.daypitney.com

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2012 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Document BBPUB00020120914e89d0000c



EDITORIAL
Big and small in retail

1,328 words
11 September 2012
The Telegraph
ABPTEL
English
© 2012. ABP Pvt. Ltd.      

The author is former professor of economics, Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta

It appears that a survey conducted by a reputed research institute has concluded that a single Walmart store can substitute for more than a thousand average retail stores in India. On the face of it, the claim is simultaneously dramatic as well as disturbing, both from the point of view of employment generation as well as that of the business interest of small and medium retailers.

The finding though, assuming that it is error-free, raises a question of analytical interest as well. Will the arrival of Walmart in India wipe out a thousand or more small retail stores that already exist? Or, will it pose a threat for the potential entry of similar small businessmen into the retail sector? The direction of causality carries undeniable significance. Destroying the means of livelihood of existing traders has grievous implications. Charting out a map for the future, on the other hand, is in the nature of a planning exercise. It is not entirely clear which of these two questions is being answered by the research work quoted above.

And it is not merely Walmart that should be under the scanner in this connection. It has been several years now since India, too, came up with its indigenous variety of supermarket chains. It is puzzling, therefore, that the Indian stores are not being seriously questioned by the critics of foreign direct investment in retail trade.

In this connection, an obvious line of investigation should be directed towards the first of the causal links, namely, the extent to which small shop-owners have been displaced by large multi-brand Indian retailers. Whether serious researchers have addressed this issue or not, the lay public has rarely been treated to anything more than the verbal rhetoric that opponents and supporters of big investment in retail engage in.

What, however, does casual observation suggest? The pavements of the city of Calcutta have long been suffering from hawker-induced pedestrian jams. The hawkers' stalls offer a wide variety of products, starting from fruits and vegetables, fast food, clothing, trinkets, stationery goods and books leading all the way to semi-sophisticated electronic equipment. If large-scale retailers were a threat to the hawkers, then some of the major street junctions of the city today should have turned into pedestrians' paradises. Quite clearly, this is yet to happen.

Indeed, if anything, one hears allegations that the hawkers' temporary sheds have posed a threat to the conventional stationery shops located inside permanent structures. In fact, the more commonly heard story is that many a medium size shop-owner uses hawkers' stalls in the immediate vicinity of the store as extended showrooms. If this observation is true, then the pricewise competition brought forth by the hawkers has led to implicit collusion and therefore peaceful coexistence of the big and the small. Also, such arrangements lead to what economists refer to as discriminating monopoly, with better off and possibly somewhat stuck up consumers paying a higher price for any given commodity inside the air-conditioned comfort of regular shops and hawkers satisfying the needs of the economically humble majority. And, as economics textbooks teach us, monopolistic behaviour, discriminating or otherwise, leads to unfair allocation of resources as well as welfare.

It was not, however, the hawkers versus stationers that we started off with. We were actually concerned with the burning question of massive investments in retail trade and their possible impact on the small traders. The Indian version of big investors in retail trade appears to be thriving. The convenience of shopping they offer is attracting many consumers. This is all too evident from the queues that form at the payment counters. Often customers are known to wait for at least half an hour to clear their bills before exiting the premises. And, as already noted, this has not brought about any significant change in the clientele size of the small street peddlers.

The multi-brand retail establishments probably attract both types of consumers we have identified, those who wish to enjoy a price advantage as well as those with an eye towards ambience. The price advantage is evidently available in the large multi-brand retail stores, partly because big capital has a buyers' advantage in the wholesale markets as well as at prime producing locations. Some believe that their presence keeps on hold the extortionist practices middlemen engage in, though this hypothesis calls for serious field investigation. Quite apart from price competition, the multi-brand retail stores can be relied on for purchase quality. Packages bearing the seal of authenticity of product attributes including quantity, as well as the availability of diversity, make shopping a simpler and a happier experience, although the happiness of the experience attracts disapproving frowns from the 'opposition' camp.

There is a cultural constraint, it would seem, in approaching the issue from the point of view of consumer satisfaction. Consumers' interests, many feel, should be the least important amongst the concerns of policymakers. Paradoxically enough, we do not hesitate to celebrate the fact that for the first time in contemporary Indian history, consumer expenditure in rural areas of India has exceeded that of the urban population. Urban consumers, in other words, are to be treated with suspicion and rural consumers eulogized. One is not quite sure why this ought to be the case, but a probable reason lies in the perception that rural areas are poverty ridden while urban dwellers are exploiters. This may well be the case to some extent, but the latest figures reveal that the latter, even as they are revelling in the sinful luxury of shopping malls, have actually consumed less than the exploited masses.

Going back to the causality question once again, it was noted that the shopping plazas have not quite usurped the existing small or medium traders, at least not visually so. From the logical point of view as well, how many shopping plazas would be required to completely satisfy the demands of a populace exceeding 120 crore? The arguments presented so far suggest that large scale retail trade, however large it may be, cannot possibly weed out the small traders, simply because there are too many consumers to cater to. Will the arrival of FDI in multi-brand retail trade make a major difference to the argument? As far as small traders are concerned, it is not so obvious how Walmart and others will pose a threat to their business. However, the Walmarts might pose competition for their Indian counterparts. What is more likely to emerge is competition between big capitalists, unless the large Indian retail marts invest more and adopt modern technologies. Whether they intend to do so is unclear, especially in the context of the infrastructure debate.

It is widely believed that FDI in retail trade will benefit farmers through the creation of spacious cold storage. There will be less wastage of produce as a result and farmers will not be forced to sell their products at throwaway prices to unscrupulous intermediaries. Whether this will actually happen is a matter of conjecture, especially since Indian investment in multi-brand retail trade is still to initiate investment in supply chain infrastructure.

What seems certain, however, is that multi-brand retail trade, both big and small, will survive. The giants will capture a chunk of the formidable Indian middle-class market. However, even if its size is significant in the eyes of the retail Goliaths, it is a small fraction of the aggregate retail market in India. Consequently, as with the hawkers and the stationers, the small may not be swallowed up. Moreover, since the supermarkets will generate employment for otherwise unemployable young people who have completed high school education at best, the employment scenario is likely to improve, since these employees will add to those already employed in existing small stores, without creating a barrier for similar shops in future.

Document ABPTEL0020120911e89b0000w



Asda worker in tribunal claiming speech impediment caused his sacking; Advance Media Information; Future News Item; Reading Employment Tribunal

132 words
6 September 2012
Precise Media Planner
AMEPLA
English
(c) 2012, Precise      

Organisation: Reading Employment Tribunal

Description: Fahter-of-two Adnan Malik, 30, of Reading, Berks, brings a claim of unfair dismissal and disability discrimination against the Asda supermarket in Tilehurst, Reading after being sacked in Sep 2011 for being 'noisy and aggressive' in front of a shopper. Malik claims that a speech impediment he has had since birth caused his communicating with his colleague to appear aggressive due to his gesticulating and moving his body as he struggled to speak. 2704069/2011

Start Date: 2012-09-12

End Date: 2012-09-13

Time Zone: BST

Summary: Asda worker in tribunal claiming speech impediment caused his sacking

Venue: Reading Employment Tribunal, UK

Country: United Kingdom

Document AMEPLA0020120906e8960006w

Wal-Mart Settles EEOC Lawsuit for $50,000

540 words
21 August 2012
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Documents
EEOD
English
Copyright © 2012 Federal Information & News Dispatch, Inc.      

Press Releases and Statements

8-21-12

Wal-Mart Settles EEOC Lawsuit for $50,000

Carlsbad Store Fired Long-Time Clerk, Refused Temporary Accommodation for Her Cerebral Palsy, Federal Agency Charged

DALLAS - Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores East, L.P. will pay $50,000 in back pay and damages in settlement of a disability discrimination lawsuit filed by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). The EEOC had charged that a Carlsbad, N.M., Walmart store unlawfully fired a part-time sales clerk because of her cerebral palsy.

he EEOC had charged in its lawsuit, Case No. 2: 11-CV-00834, filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Mexico, that Wal-Mart fired Marcia Arney rather than attempting to return her to her job following a medical leave related to her cerebral palsy. When Arney, a 22-year Wal-Mart employee, showed the store manager a note from her doctor requesting an accommodation involving periodic breaks off her feet, he refused to return her to her job, and instead demanded that she obtain a medical release with no restrictions. The EEOC alleges that the medical restriction could have easily been accommodated by the giant retailer. In fact, had the employer inquired further, it would have learned that her need for accommodation was temporary.

Such alleged conduct violates the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), which prohibits disability discrimination in the workplace. The EEOC filed suit after first attempting to reach a pre-litigation settlement through its conciliation process.

Under the consent decree settling the suit, Wal-Mart will conduct annual live ADA training of management officials at its Carlsbad store. It will also post a notice on its agreement with the EEOC so that employees are aware of procedures for reporting disability discrimination. The company has committed to not requiring disabled workers to produce a full release from their doctor upon returning from a medical leave. Further, the company will engage in an interactive process with disabled employees to find a reasonable accommodation to assist them in performing their jobs. Future charges and lawsuits alleging disability discrimination will be reported to the EEOC for the duration of the decree, as well as requests by employees for accommodation of a disability.

"Federal regulations explaining amendments to the ADA made it clear that many impairments, cerebral palsy among them, do not require a lengthy analysis to determine whether or not they are 'substantially limiting,' which is the standard for coverage," said Robert A. Canino, regional attorney for the EEOC's Dallas District Office. "Employers who used to argue otherwise should get up to speed on the clarifications Congress made to the ADA to ensure that most people with disabilities will be covered."

Janet V. Elizondo, director for the EEOC's Dallas District Office, added, "We are hopeful that our work in this case can generally serve to educate the employer community in southern New Mexico that the Dallas District stands ready to address discrimination issues at the furthest reaches of its jurisdiction."

The EEOC enforces federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination. Further information about the EEOC is available on its website at www.eeoc.gov.

Document EEOD000020120821e88l00001



Embracing Wal-Mart & Distinguishing McReynolds, The Seventh Circuit Reverses Class Certification Of Sprawling (And Stale) Classes

Proskauer's Privacy & Data Security Practice Group      
1,219 words
15 August 2012
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2012 Mondaq Ltd      

On August 8, 2012, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit reversed an order certifying large classes in a lawsuit alleging race discrimination and hostile work environment.  Bolden v. Walsh Construction Co., Case No. 12-cv-2205 (7th Cir. Aug. 8, 2012).

Background & Procedural History

Defendant Walsh Construction Company (the "Company") maintains a central organization of employees, including superintendents dispatched to manage particular construction projects.  Those individuals have discretion with respect to hiring and compensating hourly workers.  The central organization maintains a limited number of employment-related policies, including rules prohibiting racial discrimination and a requirement that superintendents honor collective bargaining agreements.  According to the Seventh Circuit, "superintendents are in charge" with respect to most other subjects of employment.  According to the Company, its many sites had different superintendents whose respective employment-related practices differed.  Many superintendents move to new sites after finishing their projects and, with a limited exception, superintendents use different groups of foremen at different sites.  Likewise, different sites have materially different working conditions.

On July 28, 2006, 12 of the Company's construction workers filed a putative class action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, alleging race discrimination and harassment in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and 42 U.S.C. §1981.  Those individuals worked for the Company in 2002 and earlier. They alleged that the Company's superintendents discriminated against African-American employees in assigning overtime work and in creating (or tolerating) impermissible work conditions.  In support of their putative class claims, they submitted statistical analyses purporting to establish that white and Hispanic workers were more likely to work overtime hours than African-American workers.  They also alleged that some superintendents and foremen at certain project sites uttered racial epithets, and that derogatory graffiti and nooses were present at certain sites.

Plaintiffs sought certification of classes covering all of the Company's 262 projects in the Chicago area since mid-2001.  The first class included "[a]ll blacks employed by Walsh on its construction sites in the Chicago Metropolitan area during the time period June 1, 2001, through the present."  The second class included "[a]ll blacks employed as journeymen by Walsh in the Chicago metropolitan area at any time during the period June 1, 2001, through the present, who were denied opportunities to work, not afforded overtime hours or not afforded premium pay hours, because of their race."  The District Court certified both classes, and the Seventh Circuit agreed to review the decision pursuant to Rule 23(f).

Class Certification Was Improper For Multiple Reasons

At the outset, the Seventh Circuit found that the type of statistical evidence plaintiffs offered suffered from essentially the same infirmities as the statistical evidence offered by the plaintiffs in Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes.  Indeed, Plaintiffs' expert in this case assumed that the appropriate unit of analysis was all of the Company's Chicago-area sites, but his approach overlooked the reality that complaints regarding the alleged conduct of a limited number of supervisors did not reflect the experiences of workers who had no interaction with those particular supervisors.  Plaintiffs' expert also failed to control for variables other than race.  For example, the Company's collective bargaining agreements require it to offer overtime first to union stewards, and if stewards are more likely to be white than other journeymen, that could explain the data without needing to impute racial bias.

Furthermore, although the Seventh Circuit recognized that a multi-site class could potentially satisfy Rule 23(b)(2) if the Company used a discriminatory policy that spanned all sites, that was not the case here.  While plaintiffs asserted that the Company had 14 policies that presented common questions, the Seventh Circuit found that those policies amounted to a policy of affording discretion to each site's superintendent.  And, following Wal-Mart, the Seventh Circuit emphasized that allowing discretionary employment decisions by local supervisors amounts to a "policy against having uniform employment practices."  More specifically, it stated that Wal-Mart "tells us that local discretion cannot support a companywide class, no matter how cleverly lawyers may try to package local variability as uniformity."

The Seventh Circuit also determined that the District Court erred in focusing its class certification decision on whether class litigation was manageable pursuant to Rule 23(b)(3)(D).  In this regard, it emphasized that Wal-Mart was decided under Rule 23(a)(2), and concluded that the District Court used Rule 23(b)(2) "in an effort to sidestep the complexities entailed in giving individual notice to class members and allowing them to opt out."  In a similar vein, the Seventh Circuit found that the District Court's reliance on McReynolds v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (7th Cir. 2012), in treating Wal-Mart as a decision turning on manageability rather than commonality, was misplaced.  It explained that its decision in McReynolds turned on its determination that a national class could be certified under Rule 23(a)(2) in the context of challenging a national policy allowing brokers to form and distribute commissions within teams, as that policy allegedly was applied to all of the employer's offices throughout the country.

Moreover, the Seventh Circuit found that certification of the hostile-work-environment class was improper both under Rule 23(a)(2) and based on manageability concerns.  It stressed that the 12 plaintiffs did not experience the challenged working conditions at all 262 sites, and granting certification "would require at least one trial per site ... and perhaps one trial per week or month per site ... ."

Flaws In The Class Definitions

The Seventh Circuit also ruled that the class definitions permitted by the District Court were flawed.  In particular, the 12 plaintiffs could not represent either class because none of the plaintiffs worked for the Company after 2002, even though the classes extend into the indefinite future.  Likewise, the overtime class improperly relied on a future decision on the merits to specify the scope of the class (again, it defined its members as persons who did not earn more "because of their race").

Implications

Employers faced with sprawling putative class actions in the employment discrimination and harassment contexts will benefit greatly from the Seventh Circuit's application of the Wal-Mart decision in Bolden, and this decision should temper concerns regarding the extent to which McReynolds blunts the edge of the Wal-Mart decision.  Importantly, employers can rely on Bolden to preclude unrealistic extrapolations of statistical analyses in the face of variability among putative class members, and use it to underscore the rigorous nature of the commonality standard.

www.proskauer.com

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Proskauer's Privacy & Data Security Practice Group

Proskauer Rose LLP

Eleven Times Square

New York

NY 10036-8299

UNITED STATES

Tel: 2129693000

Fax: 2129692900

E-mail: webmaster@proskauer.com

URL: www.proskauer.com

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2012 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Document BBPUB00020120815e88f000kd



Bolden v. Walsh Construction Co.: The Seventh Circuit Further Clarifies the Supreme Court's Decision In Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes

Thomas Shriner, Jr.      
395 words
15 August 2012
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2012 Mondaq Ltd      

Since the Supreme Court decided Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes, 131 S. Ct. 2541 (2011), last year, the lower courts have been sorting out its implications. The case, stated broadly, stands for the proposition that Rule 23(a)(2)'s commonality requirement forecloses class certification in a multi-site or mult-store case, unless the defendant uses a policy common to the sites that is said to violate applicable substantive law.

Earlier this year, in McReynolds v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc., 672 F.3d 482 (7th Cir. 2012), the Seventh Circuit allowed a class to be certified where a national policy (that local brokers could form teams and decide whom to admit to the team and whether to share commissions within the team) facilitated racial discrimination.

Relying on McReynolds, in March Judge Lefkow in Chicago certified two classes in Bolden v. Walsh Construction Co. where there was no company-wide policy other than to allow superintendents to form job-specific crews and decide whom to hire and what to pay them. Today the Seventh Circuit, on a Rule 23(f) appeal, reversed the certification order, holding that the case falls under the Wal-Mart rule and is materially unlike McReynolds. The court also said that Judge Lefkow's reading of Wal-Mart as a Rule 23(b)(3)(D) manageability case, from which she was able to distinguish this case (Wal-Mart was about thousands of stores and millions of employees, while Bolden is only about hundreds of job sites and thousands of employees) was incorrect. Wal-Mart, the court says, is a commonality case, plain and simple.

While this decision will likely be of more interest to labor lawyers than the rest of us, all of us who deal with class actions need to be aware of the developing case law interpreting Wal-Mart.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Mr Thomas Shriner, Jr.

Foley & Lardner

777 East Wisconsin Ave

WI 53202

Milwaukee

UNITED STATES

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2012 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Document BBPUB00020120817e88f0003z



UPDATE 1-Chile fines, blacklists Starbucks, Wal-Mart over labor practices

349 words
9 August 2012
08:51 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2012 Reuters Limited      

(Updates with Wal-Mart statement)

SANTIAGO, Aug 9 (Reuters) - Chile's labor department has blacklisted Starbucks and Wal-Mart local units over labor practices, preventing them from bidding to supply local government offices for two years, a department official said.

The blacklist of 36 companies published by the labor department said Starbucks Coffee Chile was fined around $25,000 for what it calls "discrimination against unions" and "bad faith in collective negotiations".

Supermarket chain Hipermercados Lider, which Wal-Mart controls, was fined around $4,167 for "not paying a replacement worker bonus".

"Four companies have repeated their conduct within the last three years ... (including) Hipermercados Lider and Starbucks Coffee Chile SA," the department said in a statement posted on its Web site.

It said Starbucks had been levied the highest fine by the courts for a second time.

Starbucks spokesman Jim Olson said the company has not had Chilean government contracts in the past and does not plan to have them in the future, so the report does not have an impact on its business in Chile.

When asked if it will hurt the company's reputation, he said: "We're proud of the work environment we've created. He added the company "recognizes and respects" its employees rights to belong to unions.

Last year, Starbucks was hit by its first strike at a company-owned store, with workers in Chile seeking pay that keeps up with inflation, a $100 monthly lunch stipend, as well as other benefits. Workers said they abandoned the strike without reaching an agreement with the company.

Wal-Mart said it was committed to "strict compliance with labor law". "The cited cases correspond to specific situations that occurred before 2008 and whose court judgments have become known recently," Wal-Mart said in a statement.

(With reporting by Lisa Baertlein in Los Angeles and Jessica Wohl and Brad Dorfman in Chicago; Writing by Simon Gardner; Editing by Michael Perry)

CHILE-LABOR/ (UPDATE 1) | ABN | E | RBN | FSC | FWE | U | RNP | DNP | PCO      

Document LBA0000020120810e88a00015



Proposed Legislation To Repeal Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes Goes Too Far

Donald Frederico      
815 words
2 August 2012
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2012 Mondaq Ltd      

Last week, on the one-year anniversary of Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes, 131 S.Ct. 2541 (2011), a group of Democratic lawmakers proposed companion House and Senate bills that would  repeal Dukes' requirement that workers seeking class treatment of employment discrimination claims demonstrate class-wide discrimination policies or practices.  The stated purpose of the "Equal Employment Opportunity Restoration Act of 2012" is to "restore employees' ability to challenge, as a group, discriminatory employment practices, including subjective employment practices."  In fact, the Act would not simply restore employees' ability to mount group challenges, but would expand their ability to do so beyond any procedures existing before the Supreme Court handed down Dukes. 

Ordinarily, plaintiffs have based class claims of discrimination on policies or practices that are company-wide and affect employees in a common manner.  At the times of the events at issue in Dukes, Wal-Mart had company-wide policies that prohibited discrimination, and the Dukes plaintiffs took a different approach.  The centralized policy they challenged was a policy that decentralized hiring and promotion decisions, leaving such decisions to the discretion of individual supervisors and store managers.  Not surprisingly, a majority of the Supreme Court held that the delegation to thousands of individual supervisors of employment decisions affecting more than one million female employees at thousands of locations across the country precluded a finding of commonality.    

To encourage class actions in employment cases, the proposed Act would effectively nullify Dukes and create a very liberal standard for the pursuit of so-called "group actions" under Title VII, the ADA, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Genetic Nondiscrimination Act.   The "group action" option is essentially a stripped down version of Rule 23 that would eliminate entirely the need to prove the existence of common issues of law or fact or that such common issues predominate over individual issues.  The Act would essentially leave intact all other provisions of Rule 23 for group actions and, in place of commonality and predominance, would add the requirement that "the members of the group are, or have been, subject to an employment practice that has adversely affected or is adversely affecting a significant portion of the group's members." The bill would lower the standard of proof that the elements for certification have been met, providing that an individual can sue on behalf of a group simply by showing "by a reasonable inference" that she meets these truncated Rule 23 requirements. 

The proposed Act would allow these "group actions" regardless of whether the group is challenging an objective or a subjective employment practice, and would therefore allow class treatment even where the challenged employment practice resulted from the exercise of many different supervisors' discretion.  It also would allow a court to consider, in opposition to certification of the group action, an employer's written non-discrimination policy "only to the extent that the employer demonstrates that the policy has been consistently and effectively used to prevent and, where necessary, promptly correct discrimination against the group."   In cases where employers have been found liable, the law would allow the court to deny a remedy to an individual member of the group action only where the employer proved that the member would have been denied whatever employment opportunity or benefit is the subject of the action, absent any statutory violation.  Finally, the Act would expressly leave untouched the standards governing class certification in cases that do not involve the covered employment discrimination statutes.

By removing any required showing of commonality and creating a new, less restrictive collective-action avenue for certain employment discrimination actions, the proposed Equal Employment Opportunity Restoration Act of 2012 goes far beyond simply reversing the impact of Dukes, and would make it easier than ever before for employees and their attorneys to assert discrimination claims on behalf of large groups of allegedly affected individuals.   Such an unprecedented and sweeping expansion of class procedures would subject employers to enormous risks of liability to unaffected and uninjured employees, and may well run afoul of their due process rights to defend individual claims.  At bottom, the bill represents an over-reaction to an unpopular Supreme Court decision that threatens to undermine the balancing of plaintiffs' and defendants' rights embedded in Rule 23.  We think it unlikely that this bill will pass, but employers should expect continued efforts to challenge the effects of Dukes.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Mr Donald Frederico

Pierce Atwood LLP

Merrill's Wharf

254 Commercial Street

Portland

ME 04101

UNITED STATES

E-mail: info@pierceatwood.com

URL: www.pierceatwood.com

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2012 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Document BBPUB00020120802e8820008f

In Brief
IN BRIEF; Illinois fined $250,000

FROM STAFF AND ALM REPORTS      
534 words
30 July 2012
The National Law Journal
NLJ
3
Volume 34; Issue 48
English
Copyright 2012 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

The University of Illinois College of Law must pay a $250,000 fine to the American Bar Association for inflating the academic credentials of its incoming students, under a censure the ABA announced on July 24. "The picture the council saw was one of a school that was not sufficiently concerned about its responsibility to put accurate information out there," the ABA's John O'Brien said.

New Dewey plan

The stewards of the Dewey & LeBoeuf bankruptcy have presented partners with a revised settlement proposal that seeks larger contributions—a total of $2.1 million—from the firm's executive committee members. Fewer partners would be assessed and the minimum contribution would be lower compared to an initial proposal that met widespread opposition.

Access at Wal-Mart

A legal advocacy group filed suit against Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in U.S. district court in San Francisco on July 25, alleging the retailing giant discriminates against wheelchair users by placing check-out machines too high and out of reach. According to the lead plaintiffs, the set-up in some Wal-Mart stores in California requires disabled customers to give their PIN numbers to cashiers to complete transactions.

Biofuel challenge

The American Petroleum Institute has sued the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, challenging a requirement that refiners use cellulosic biofuels or pay a fee. The problem: the biofuels don't actually exist—there was no commercial supply available in 2011, the institute asserted. An institute spokesman called the mandate "absurd."

New dean at Stanford

Stanford Law School has named Mary Elizabeth Magill as its next dean, effective on September 1. Magill now is vice dean at the University of Virginia School of Law. At Stanford she will replace Larry Kramer, who is moving on to run the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation. Magill clerked for U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg and joined the Virginia faculty in 1997.

Scientology prevails

The Church of Scientology did not violate the U.S. Trafficking Victims Protection Act despite a couple's claims that it required them to work 100 hours a week for $50 each; forced them to perform manual labor; and forced the wife to undergo two abortions, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled on July 24. The court concluded that Marc and Claire Headley could have left at any time.

Photography settlement

To settle a lawsuit brought by a man who claimed he was wrongly detained after taking pictures of police activity, Washington's Metropolitan Police Department has issued a new general order spelling out the public's right to photograph and record police officers carrying out official business. Jerome Vorus raised constitutional objections after he was questioned by officers while taking pictures of a traffic stop.

Eyewitness warning

The New Jersey Supreme Court is putting tighter strictures on admission of eyewitness identifications in criminal cases and offering better guidance for jurors weighing such evidence. As of September 4, jurors will be told that "Human memory is not foolproof" and isn't like "a video recording that a witness need only replay to remember what happened."

Document NLJ0000020120806e87u00008

Briefing
THE WEEK

217 words
30 July 2012
The Recorder
RECRDR
2
Volume 136; Issue 31
English
Copyright 2012 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.        

Disability Rights Advocates sued Wal-Mart Stores Inc., accusing the retail giant of discriminating against wheelchair users by placing check-out machines too high and out of reach.

A full panel of International Trade Commission judges affirmed an earlier ruling invalidating five Rambus patents under the "unclean hands" doctrine.

The Second District ruled that insurance claim adjusters are entitled to overtime pay under state law, despite employer claims that the workers are exempt.

U.S. District Judge Jeffrey White quashed service of indictment on four Chinese corporations in an economic espionage case, saying prosecutors failed to show that they properly mailed summonses to the defendants.

New court filings in the Apple/ Samsung patent cases detailed the hefty fees commanded by lawyers at Quinn Emanuel and Morrison & Foerster.

The First District found that California has been illegally collecting too much income tax from large corporations that do business in multiple states, which could mean a $34 million tax refund for plaintiffs Gillette, Procter & Gamble and Kimberly-Clark.

Silicon Valley mainstay Cooley opened an office in Los Angeles to serve Southern California tech and media clients.

Golden Gate University School of Law chose Rachel Van Cleave, who previously served as an associate dean, as its new interim dean for the 2012-13 school year.

Document RECRDR0020120730e87u00003

current
Costco plaintiffs in 'Dukes' shadow

Cynthia Foster cfoster@alm.com      
964 words
30 July 2012
The Recorder
RECRDR
1
Volume 136; Issue 31
English
Copyright 2012 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.        

In the first major gender discrimination suit to come to a head in California since the U.S. Supreme Court tossed out the claims of nearly 1.6 million female Wal-Mart workers last year, plaintiffs lawyers are doing what they can to steer clear of comparisons to that case.

But that might be a challenge because the claims a proposed class of about 700 women are bringing against Costco Inc., that they were passed over for management jobs because of their gender, sound in some ways very similar to Dukes v. Wal-Mart: The defendants are both retail giants, both classes of plaintiffs rely on controversial statistical evidence, and even some of the plaintiffs lawyers are the same.

Costco's lawyers at Seyfarth Shaw are arguing that the cases are nearly identical and have moved to eliminate the class claims. U.S. District Judge Edward Chen of San Francisco will hear arguments on that motion, and on the plaintiffs' motion to certify the class, on Tuesday.

Berkeley lawyers Brad Seligman and Jocelyn Larkin of The Impact Fund say Ellis v. Costco Wholesale, 04-3341, is a different beast than Dukes — and they couldn't — be better positioned to understand, having filed Dukes themselves.

In the Wal-Mart case, the Supreme Court threw out a certification of a huge class of Wal-Mart employees who claimed the company systematically discriminated against them on the basis of their gender, denying them promotions, training and opportunities at all levels. The statistical evidence presented by the women's lawyers didn't show a commonality between the claims — that is, they couldn't prove that the company had an overarching policy of discrimination that negatively impacted each class member in the same way, the high court said.

"There's a lot riding on this for discrimination plaintiffs and others whose claims may be affected by how broadly or narrowly Dukes is applied," said Michael Rubin, a plaintiff-side employment lawyer who isn't involved in Ellis, but whose firm, Altshuler Berzon, is co-counsel on the case.

In Ellis, lawyers for the plaintiffs say the smaller, narrower class is absolutely suited for certification. Not only is the class smaller than Dukes, the plaintiffs lawyers explain, so, too, is the size of the group allegedly discriminating against the female workers. In Dukes, class members claim they were discriminated against by more than 3,400 "decision makers," which made it difficult to show an overarching managerial policy of discrimination. Ultimately, the Supreme Court wasn't satisfied and Dukes was remanded back to trial courts, prompting regional suits. A motion to dismiss one of those suits is pending before Chen's colleague on the Northern District, Judge Charles Breyer.

The suit, filed in 2004, alleges that Costco's senior management, including its CEO, deliberately constructed a promotional system that lacks transparency and favors men over women. The company identifies so-called top performers who are pre-selected and "groomed" by executives for management jobs, according to court papers. Costco posts photos and biographies of the chosen workers in a room only accessible by senior management at corporate headquarters. Costco does not post job ads internally, and employees aren't aware of openings, plaintiffs allege.

"Costco does not require decision makers to identify or interview candidates for promotions or to consider more than one candidate," Larkin, who is lead counsel for the plaintiffs, wrote in court papers.

"If you read Costco's papers they say this case is exactly like Dukes, but I think that argument is quite easy to rebut," said Larkin.

For one thing, Larkin says, the plaintiffs in Ellis allege that they were discriminated against only for promotions to certain midlevel management positions. They don't make the far-reaching claims made by the plaintiffs in Dukes.

Observers from the defense bar counter that the Ellis plaintiffs' reliance on aggregated statistics that are then applied to a national workforce makes this case nearly identical to Dukes.

"I think there are a lot of echoes of Dukes in this case," said Alan Levins of Littler Mendelson, who isn't involved in the case.

Another observer, Kristen Jacoby, a senior associate at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe, agreed.

"It seems like a fairly straightforward application of Dukes," she said. "Is there a policy that the plaintiffs can point to that can resolve that question of 'why was I disfavored?'"

According to the defense, plaintiffs have been unable to prove that the same kind of blanket mistreatment, or disfavor, has held back each of the lead plaintiffs and the proposed class members. Three women are named as lead plaintiffs in the suit, two of whom no longer work at Costco. Costco's lawyers say in their papers that unique reasons account for decisions that held two women back from promotions. Family concerns, poor performance and an inability to relocate are all cited.

"Plaintiffs identify no 'glue holding the alleged reasons for all of these decisions together,'" wrote Seyfarth Shaw's David Kadue, a labor and employment partner in the firm's Los Angeles office.

In an interview Wednesday, the Impact Fund's Larkin said the plaintiffs have introduced evidence to show that some senior-level managers had voiced concerns about the discriminatory practices only to be rebuffed by Costco's chief executive officer. Kadue declined to comment, citing Costco's policy against commenting on pending litigation.

"It seems pretty clear that what the courts are looking for is the policy that's clearly established at the corporate level, a much smaller, manageable case, and evidence for the court to feel comfortable there's a common practice" of discrimination, Larkin said. "All three of those are very much present in the evidence."

Document RECRDR0020120730e87u00002

News; News
Wal-Mart accused of violating ADA

By Ashley Post      
236 words
26 July 2012
Inside Counsel
INCOUNS
English
Copyright 2012 Inside Counsel. A Summit Business Media publication. All rights reserved      

Yesterday, we reported on a case in which the 9th Circuit ordered Walt Disney Co. to be  more accommodating to disabled theme park visitors. Today, we’re bringing you news about another disability-related case involving the world’s largest retailer: Wal-Mart Stores Inc.

Yesterday, disability rights advocates filed suit against Wal-Mart for purportedly violating the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and California state laws because the payment machines in its stores are not accessible to disabled customers who use wheelchairs and scooters. The suit, which is reportedly the first of its kind, claims that disabled customers are forced to “stretch and strain upwards” to see the payment screens at Walmart stores, and others are risking identity theft by giving their personal identification numbers orally to cashiers in order to make purchases.

The plaintiffs seek class action status and a permanent injunction that would require Wal-Mart to make payment machines fully accessible to disabled customers.

"Wal-Mart should be an industry leader, not a defender of discrimination," Bill Lann Lee, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said in a statement.

Meanwhile, Wal-Mart spokeswoman Ashley Hardie said in a statement that the retailer’s “goal is that every [point-of-sale] machine be accessible within the regulations and guidelines of the ADA and California law.”

Read  Thomson Reuters for more about the suit.

Document INCOUNS020120727e87q00004



Wal-Mart Stores sued by disabled customers over hard-to-reach payment machines

BY TERENCE CHEA      
AP      
461 words
25 July 2012
06:48 PM
The Canadian Press
CPR
English
(c) 2012 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved.      

SAN FRANCISCO _ Disability rights advocates filed a federal lawsuit Wednesday against Wal-Mart Stores Inc., claiming the retail giant refuses to make payment machines accessible to customers who use wheelchairs and scooters.

The plaintiffs allege that Bentonville, Ark.-based Wal-Mart knowingly placed point-of-sale terminals beyond the reach of disabled customers at many of its more than 200 stores in California _ in violation of state law and the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act.

The lack of accessible payment devices makes it difficult or impossible for disabled customers to independently pay for goods with a credit or debit card, according to the lawsuit. Many must ask cashiers to read the charges, enter their personal identification number or PIN or sign on their behalf to authorize the transaction.

``Wal-Mart should be an industry leader, not a defender of discrimination,'' said plaintiff's attorney Bill Lann Lee. ``Point-of-sale machines are the wave of the future in American retail. They should be accessible, convenient and secure to use for all customers.''

Wal-Mart spokeswoman Ashley Hardie could not comment on the lawsuit itself, but she said the company is committed to serving customers with disabilities.

``Our goal is that every point-of-sale machine be accessible within the regulations of the (Americans with Disabilities Act) and California law,'' she said.

The lawsuit was filed in U.S. District Court in San Francisco by the Berkeley-based Center for Independent Living and two disabled individuals. They are represented by the groups Disability Rights Advocates and Disability Rights Education and Defence Fund.

``I feel unsafe when I check out at Wal-Mart,'' said plaintiff Janet Brown, a wheelchair user from Pittsburg. ``I can't reach the payment device on my own, read the display screen, enter my PIN or sign the screen to complete the transaction. I have to share my private PIN with the cashier, which I hate to do.''

The plaintiffs are seeking class-action status for the lawsuit so that it could cover all disabled people who have had trouble using payment devices at Wal-Mart stores in California.

The lawsuit, which attorneys say is the first of its kind, seeks unspecified damages and the installation of accessible payment machines at the company's California stores.

Hard-to-reach credit-card readers are common at retail stores throughout the world, but disability advocates say they are launching their campaign to change that by targeting Wal-Mart, said Arlene Mayerson, directing attorney at the Disability Rights Education & Defence Fund.

``Why Walmart? Because they are the biggest retailer in the world,'' Mayerson said. ``They should be able to do it right.''

20120725CPCPB3413      

Document CPR0000020120726e87p000ad



Wal-Mart Stores sued by disabled customers over hard-to-reach payment machines

By TERENCE CHEA      
Associated Press      
463 words
25 July 2012
06:41 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2012.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - Disability rights advocates filed a federal lawsuit Wednesday against Wal-Mart Stores Inc., claiming the retail giant refuses to make payment machines accessible to customers who use wheelchairs and scooters.

The plaintiffs allege that Bentonville, Ark.-based Wal-Mart knowingly placed point-of-sale terminals beyond the reach of disabled customers at many of its more than 200 stores in California -- in violation of state law and the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act.

The lack of accessible payment devices makes it difficult or impossible for disabled customers to independently pay for goods with a credit or debit card, according to the lawsuit. Many must ask cashiers to read the charges, enter their personal identification number or PIN or sign on their behalf to authorize the transaction.

"Wal-Mart should be an industry leader, not a defender of discrimination," said plaintiff's attorney Bill Lann Lee. "Point-of-sale machines are the wave of the future in American retail. They should be accessible, convenient and secure to use for all customers."

Wal-Mart spokeswoman Ashley Hardie could not comment on the lawsuit itself, but she said the company is committed to serving customers with disabilities.

"Our goal is that every point-of-sale machine be accessible within the regulations of the (Americans with Disabilities Act) and California law," she said.

The lawsuit was filed in U.S. District Court in San Francisco by the Berkeley-based Center for Independent Living and two disabled individuals. They are represented by the groups Disability Rights Advocates and Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund.

"I feel unsafe when I check out at Wal-Mart," said plaintiff Janet Brown, a wheelchair user from Pittsburg. "I can't reach the payment device on my own, read the display screen, enter my PIN or sign the screen to complete the transaction. I have to share my private PIN with the cashier, which I hate to do."

The plaintiffs are seeking class-action status for the lawsuit so that it could cover all disabled people who have had trouble using payment devices at Wal-Mart stores in California.

The lawsuit, which attorneys say is the first of its kind, seeks unspecified damages and the installation of accessible payment machines at the company's California stores.

Hard-to-reach credit-card readers are common at retail stores throughout the world, but disability advocates say they are launching their campaign to change that by targeting Wal-Mart, said Arlene Mayerson, directing attorney at the Disability Rights Education & Defense Fund.

"Why Walmart? Because they are the biggest retailer in the world," Mayerson said. "They should be able to do it right."

7      

Document APRS000020120725e87p0028j



Wal-Mart sued by disabled over payment machine access

452 words
25 July 2012
06:50 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2012 Reuters Limited      

* Wal-Mart accused of mounting payment machines too high

* Retailer accused of violating federal, California laws

* Wal-Mart says goal is to comply with disability laws

By Jonathan Stempel

July 25 (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc has been sued by disability rights advocates who accused the world's largest retailer of failing to make payment machines accessible to disabled customers who use wheelchairs and scooters.

In what they called the first case of its kind, the plaintiffs accused Wal-Mart of discriminating against disabled customers by mounting "point-of-sale" terminals in many stores at elevated heights that cannot be reached.

They said this makes it difficult or impossible for the customers to pay for goods with credit or debit cards, and that Wal-Mart has refused to replace these older-model terminals despite using more accessible equipment in other stores.

The complaint filed on Wednesday with the federal court in San Francisco accuses Wal-Mart of violating the Americans with Disabilities Act and California state laws protecting the disabled.

It seeks class-action status, and a permanent injunction requiring the Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer to make point-of-sale terminals fully accessible to people in wheelchairs and scooters.

"Wal-Mart should be an industry leader, not a defender of discrimination," Bill Lann Lee, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said in a statement.

Ashley Hardie, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman, in a statement said the retailer is committed to serving disabled people. "Our goal is that every POS machine be accessible within the regulations and guidelines of the ADA and California law," she added.

The lawsuit was filed by Center for Independent Living Inc, a group based in Berkeley, California; and California residents Janet Brown and Lisa Kilgore, who both use wheelchairs. Two other disability rights groups are also involved.

According to the complaint, some customers are forced to "stretch and strain upwards" to see Wal-Mart's view screens, while others risk identity theft by having to orally give their personal identification numbers to cashiers.

The complaint said neither Brown nor Kilgore can see the display screens at the Wal-Mart stores where they shop, and neither can privately enter her own confidential PIN number.

"I feel unsafe when I check out," Brown said in a statement.

The case is Center for Independent Living Inc et al v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California, No. 12-03885.

(Reporting By Jonathan Stempel in New York; editing by Carol Bishopric)

WALMART-DISABLED/LAWSUIT | ABN | D | E | RBN | FSC | G | NAT | U | ABX | BNX | FUN | C | M | O | MTL | GRO | SOF | OIL | RNP | DNP | PTD | PGE | PCO      

Document LBA0000020120726e87p00007

Search Summary

 All of these words

     At least one of these words
discrimination discriminatory discriminate discriminates discriminated discriminating harassment
     None of these words

     This exact phrase

     Date
07/22/2012 to 09/20/2012
     Source
All Sources
     Author
All Authors
     Company
Walmart Inc
     Subject
All Subjects
     Industry
All Industries
     Region
All Regions
     Language
English
     Results Found
18
     Timestamp
16 June 2023 10:29 AM
    
