 
•	'Women Owned': can a new Walmart label boost sales for female entrepreneurs?
•	Tackling organized labor's challenges
•	Walmart and eBay oppose shareholder resolutions to disclose gender pay gap
•	When shareholders want to talk about pay equality, but companies don't ; Wal-Mart, eBay and Exxon have each been hit with proposals to publicly disclose gender pay disparities.
•	How others see us.(EDITORIAL)
•	'Conscience protection' bill prompts Wal-Mart's criticism.(Government)
•	"To Assume Is To Accept As Truth Without Checking": The Cost Of Paying Lip Service To Respectful Workplace Policies
•	Business Highlights
•	Business Highlights
•	BC-APFN-Business News Digest
•	Wal-Mart opposes Arkansas 'conscience protection' measure critics cast as anti-LGBT
•	Wal-Mart criticizes 'conscience protection' measure
•	Wal-Mart criticizes Arkansas 'conscience protection' measure
•	Arkansas bars broader local rights for gays and lesbians; Wal-mart says it sends wrong message
•	Arkansas bars expanding local protections for gays, lesbians
•	Wal-Mart opposes new Arkansas law some see as allowing bias against gays and lesbians
•	Workers and critics greet Walmart pay raise but say much remains to be done
•	Wal-Mart opposes Arkansas law some see as allowing LGBT bias
•	2 sides in West Coast ports dispute reach tentative contract
•	Walmart raises salaries, fails consumers
•	Legally Married, but Their Boss Disagrees
•	Agency claims Wal-Mart biased against lesbians For years, employee repeatedly tried to enroll partner in health plan
•	Wal-Mart to Pay $150,000 to Settle EEOC Age and Disability Discrimination Suit
•	Wal-Mart ordered to aid New Bedford woman denied benefits for ailing wife
•	Feds say Wal-Mart was biased against lesbians who sought health coverage
•	APNewsBreak: Feds say Wal-Mart was biased against lesbians
•	Shopper caught on camera headbutting worker at Walmart 'knocking her two front teeth loose' is arrested
•	Making Sense of Class Actions After 'Braun' and 'Dukes'
•	Watch what's in store! Astonishing moment fight breaks out at Walmart after customer HEADBUTTS worker who 'insulted her husband'
•	New York Church Taking Walmart To Court Over Gun Sales
•	New York Church Taking Walmart To Court Over Gun Sales
•	Willingness To Stay the Course Tested; SANFORD HEISLER
•	The Third Circuit Distinguishes Between Types Of Class Actions For Purposes Of Its Ascertainability Analysis
•	The Bitter And Sweet Of The Wal-Mart/Comcast/Halliburton Triumvirate: More Grounds For Defeating Class Certification, But More Exposure To Discovery
•	The Seventh Circuit Interprets Wisconsin Exemption Law On College Savings Accounts And Retirement Annuities, But Did It Have Jurisdiction...
•	Morning Scan: Obama Plans to Fight for Dodd-Frank; Walmart's Latest Move
•	Hundreds of ASDA workers in Lanarkshire could take action in new equal pay row
•	It ASDA be equal pay



Guardian Sustainable Business
'Women Owned': can a new Walmart label boost sales for female entrepreneurs?

Amy Westervelt      
701 words
16 March 2015
04:54 PM
The Guardian
GRDN
English
© Copyright 2015.    The Guardian.    All rights reserved.      

The retail giant plans to highlight products from women-owned companies in its stores. Will it help relieve the chain’s strained relationship with women’s rights groups?

Women want to buy products made by other women. At least that’s what female customers told Walmart loud and clear during a recent survey, the retail giant says. Now the company is responding with a new “Women Owned” logo, as well as an online shop featuring products from women-owned companies and a campaign to highlight women-owned products in Walmart stores.

Walmart conducted research to understand how women felt about products made by women,” says Tricia Moriarty, Walmart’s director of global responsibility communications. “The research showed that a majority of our female customers would go out of their way to buy a product from women-owned businesses. Since the majority of our customers are women, and women are responsible for 80% of consumer decisions globally, we are sharing our passion for these businesses with customers and associates by showcasing products with the logo.”

Launched on Thursday, the new logo will accompany all products from women-owned businesses on Walmart’s website, and several such products in stores as well. Products carrying the “Women Owned” logo have third-party validation through the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council or WEConnect, which verifies that they are at least 51% owned, operated or controlled by a woman or a group of women.

The Women Owned initiative comes on the heels of the launch of Walmart’s Sustainability Leaders online shop last month, which features 3,000 products made by companies identified as leaders in a category (like televisions or plastic toys) through the Walmart Sustainability Index and marked with a Sustainability Leaders badge.

Items in the Sustainability Leaders shop are evaluated using the Walmart Sustainability Index, which analyzes information about a supplier’s approach to monitoring and managing social and environmental impacts across the full life cycle of its products. But the initiative has run into criticism because the vetting process covers the company’s management and operations, not necessarily the sustainability of the product.

In contrast, products in the Women Owned category are fairly simply vetted. The store has been piloting the “Women Owned” logo at just a handful of stores so far, and Moriarty says results have been good. “The products from women-owned businesses at Walmart have collectively experienced higher growth than overall products,” she says.

The program may also help to smooth over the retailer’s historically strained relationship with women’s rights groups. This time last year, the retailer was changing its pregnancy policy after coming under fire from various labor groups for discriminating against pregnant women.

In 2012, nearly 2,000 women in 48 states filed charges against Walmart with the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, alleging discrimination in pay and promotions. The charges followed a class action lawsuit, which the Supreme Court dismissed, stating that the 1.5 million female Walmart workers were too large and too diverse a group to be considered a “class” and that the individual complaints had too little in common to qualify as systematic gender discrimination.

“The fact that EEOC charges were filed in every single Walmart region in the nation demonstrates the widespread and pervasive nature of Walmart’s pay and promotion discrimination against its women employees,” said Brad Seligman, a lead attorney for the women, in a statement when the charges were filed.

Because Walmart stores carry thousands of products from women-owned businesses, according to Moriarty, there are not plans to display signage for every single product, but Moriarty says several companies are planning to incorporate the logo into their packaging. The logo will also be designed in Spanish, French and Mandarin.

In addition to increasing sales and catering to female customers, the products help the company deliver on its 2011 commitment to sourcing $20bn of its US products from women over five years.

The values-led business hub is funded by SC Johnson. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled “brought to you by”. Find out more here.

Document GRDN000020150316eb3g006el



BUSINESS
Tackling organized labor's challenges

By Jane M. Von Bergen      
Inquirer Staff Writer      
810 words
9 March 2015
The Philadelphia Inquirer
PHLI
CITY-D
C08
English
(c) Copyright 2015, Philadelphia Newspapers. All Rights Reserved.      

Lots of labor news in the last three weeks - and in some ways, the 21,000-member union local led by Wendell Young 4th has been at the heart of all of it.

On Feb. 19, for example, Walmart announced it would raise minimum wages for its workers to $9 an hour starting in April. In Philadelphia, and across the nation, the United Food and Commercial Workers union has spent at least the last two decades pressuring Walmart on its wage policies.

On Feb. 26, the Pennsylvania House voted to privatize the state's liquor stores. The majority of employees in those stores are represented by UFCW Local 1776, headed by Young.

And on Wednesday, the U.S. Senate voted to squelch rule changes by the National Labor Relations Board that would have speeded up the union election process. Young's union, like many others, disagrees with the Senate vote.

Question: Let's start with that Harrisburg perennial, the push to privatize state liquor stores. You don't seem as worried about it this year as you have been in the past when former Gov. Tom Corbett favored the idea.

Answer: The Senate is not as interested in privatization as [House Speaker] Mike Turzai is. They weren't the last time and they still aren't. And you have a governor who vowed to veto it. Even in [his] budget address, he made it clear that we have a valuable asset and we should improve it.

Q: So why does the privatization of state liquor stores keep coming up?

A: Certain wholesalers don't like the fact that Pennsylvania can use its size to leverage better prices so they make less money. They would make more money in a private system because hundreds of individual operators will not have the buying power that Pennsylvania does.

Q: What about Walmart's announcement?

A: The UFCW has played an important role in highlighting the terrible employment policies, their discriminatory practices, and their disregard for the law, and this has put a lot of pressure on this company. I think their claim to raise wages is a result of this pressure.

Q: Critics of the NLRB rule changes describe the speeded-up election process as ambush elections, or quickie elections. What's your take?

A: The biggest challenge of the labor movement is that it is very difficult for workers today to exercise workplace democracy and have a free and fair election. They can get an election, but it's not free and fair. The employer violates the law, usually, by disciplining or firing people early on in the [organizing] campaign to discourage others from supporting the union. The legal process takes a long time to remedy that and there's no teeth left in the remedies.

Q: So how would a quicker election help?

A: Delaying elections only serves to give the employers more time to intimidate people.

Q: What don't most people understand about unions?

A: Some people think that unions are responsible for putting companies out of business. That's a stereotypical view. The fact is that we need organizations to be successful. If they aren't doing well, our members are working for less. Pretty much everyone I know in labor takes the same approach.

Q: You started out working in stores and officially you are still an Acme employee on leave. What was your favorite job?

A: Express cashier. It made the day go by fast.

Q: You wake up in the middle of the night to check your e-mail.

A: It drives my girlfriend nuts. I turn off the noise. If I'm in bed any more than four hours, then I get restless.

<HR /><H4> WENDELL YOUNG 4th </H4>

Title: President

Home: Lower Providence Twp.

Family: Daughters Rachel, 34, Alexandra, 22, Nicole, 19.

Lives with: Nancy Flanagan, her four children, his two youngest.

High school: Archbishop Ryan

Elsewhere: Labor leadership certificates at Cornell, St. Joseph's.

To relax: Makes spaghetti with clams, watches sci-fi movies.

Star Trek hero: Captain Kirk.

Why: "He is very active in fighting big conspiracies and well-organized, well-financed evil-doers." <HR /><H4> UFCW 1776 </H4>

Union: United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 1776, Plymouth Meeting.

Members: 21,000

Revenue: $16.6 million.

Represents: Pa. State Store workers; Acme Market, Pathmark, Superfresh, Rite Aid, Wise Foods, Pocono Springs employees; nursing home workers in upstate Pennsylvania; staffers at other unions.

<HR /><H4> MORE ONLINE </H4>

Why Young's father, a union leader, said: Don't follow me. www.philly.com/jobbing. Interview questions and answers have been edited for space.

jvonbergen@phillynews.com

215-854-2769

@JaneVonBergen

Wendell Young 4th , whose union represents State Store workers, among others. ALEJANDRO A. ALVAREZ / Staff Photographer      

Document PHLI000020150309eb390000h



Guardian Sustainable Business
Walmart and eBay oppose shareholder resolutions to disclose gender pay gap

Jana Kasperkevic      
1,026 words
6 March 2015
03:37 PM
The Guardian
GRDN
English
© Copyright 2015.    The Guardian.    All rights reserved.      

Investors have filed proposals that would – if approved – require eBay and Walmart to report any disparity between male and female pay. Will they succeed?

Online marketplace eBay has said it will oppose a shareholder proposal that would require it to disclose any gap in gender pay.

Arjuna Capital, a sustainable wealth management arm of investment adviser Baldwin Brothers, announced Thursday that it had filed the proposal, which requests that eBay publicly report the pay disparity between its male and female employees and set goals to close any gaps.

The company responded that it would oppose the resolution, which it said is not in the best interest of its stockholders, according to Natasha Lamb, Arjuna Capital’s director of equity research and shareholder engagement. Ebay did not respond to the Guardian’s requests for comment, but confirmed in the San Francisco Chronicle that it plans to oppose the proposal.

Related: Net neutrality activists celebrate internet victory with grumpy cat parade

Lamb disagrees that the proposal wouldn’t be in shareholders’ best interests. “The eBay proposal is clearly in the interest of enhancing shareholder value,” she said in a press statement. “Gender diversity is a key driver of innovation and performance, factors of particular importance to the tech industry.”

Women make up 42% of eBay’s employees and 28% of its leadership, according to diversity figures the company released last year as part of a flurry of diversity reporting among tech firms ( starting with Google ).

Citing lawsuits, Walmart moves to block vote on gender pay The eBay news comes after Walmart opposed a similar proposal late last month.

That proposal was submitted by Cynthia Murray, a 15-year employee of a Walmart store in Laurel, Maryland, who owns almost 70 shares of the company’s common stock and belongs to Our Walmart, a worker organization that has been lobbying for higher wage and better schedules at the company.

“Murray’s resolution would require Walmart to disclose, for each pay grade and salary range: the proportion of men and women in each grade and range, the average hours worked by men and women and the average hourly wage rates of men and women,” according to the press release.

Shareholders are currently scheduled to vote on the resolution at the company’s annual meeting in June. That is, if it is included in the 2015 proxy materials at all.

On 30 January, Walmart filed a no-action letter with the US Securities and Exchange Commission in response to Murray’s proposal, asking for a permission to exclude the letter from its 2015 proxy materials “because the proposal relates to the company’s litigation strategy”.

Related: Could more diversity help end the tech talent shortage?

“[T]he company believes that disclosure of the information requested by the proposal would adversely affect the company’s litigation strategy in a number of pending lawsuits and claims alleging gender-based discrimination in pay,” according to the 11-page letter filed with the SEC (pdf).

The letter goes on to say that, so far, Walmart has had “no adverse judgment against the company in any of these matters” and is determined to keep it that way.

Every company’s management has a responsibility to defend the company’s interest against unwarranted litigation. A shareholder proposal that interferes with this obligation is inappropriate, particularly when the company is involved in pending litigation on the very issues that form the basis for the proposal.”

Simply put, Walmart believes that publicly disclosing information about its pay, broken down by gender, could threaten its standing in a number of pending gender discrimination lawsuits.

In her proxy proposal (pdf), Murray references the lawsuits as exactly the reason why the company should disclose information about its pay.

“Walmart has faced charges of widespread gaps in pay between men and women doing similar jobs,” she writes. “Thus, we are concerned about possible reputational damage.”

Related: Tax breaks for CEOs pay for million-dollar salaries

Even as Walmart attempts to keep its pay information confidential, company spokesperson Randy Hargrove claims it continues “to be a great place for women to work and advance”.

“[W]e have a long history of providing advancement opportunities for our female associates,” he told the Guardian. “In fact, we have created specific training and mentoring programs to help prepare women for opportunities at all levels in our company.”

A moot point? Even if the proposal ends up on the proxy, of course, there is no guarantee that shareholders would vote for it.

Walmart shareholders are unlikely to vote in favor of a proxy proposal that could cause Walmart to lose in court or paint the company in a negative light, causing its value to drop.

“In general, shareholders tend to be more supportive of resolutions seeking disclosures of information that might be useful to investors; less supportive of prescriptive proposals seeking specific action,” said Carol Bowie, head of Institutional Shareholders Services’ Americas Research group.

While proxy proposals calling for release of pay by gender are uncommon, “the issue of increasing gender diversity has been a proposal topic for many years”, she added.

Related: Walmart joins Ikea, Aetna and Gap in raising wages for lowest-paid workers

But the issue is certainly receiving more attention now.

During his State of the Union address, US President Barack Obamarenewed his call for equal pay, saying : “Women deserve equal pay for equal work.” Last weekend, Patricia Arquette used her Oscar acceptance speech for best actress to raise awareness about the issue.

“Gender pay equality is not only one of the biggest social injustice issues of our time, but clearly a business issue whose time has come,” Lamb said in a statement. “We want to invest in companies committed to the innovation and success diversity fosters.”

* This article was amended on 6 March. Due to an editing error, a previous version incorrectly attributed a paragraph about Walmart shareholders being unlikely to vote for the proxy proposal to Carol Bowie, head of Institutional Shareholders Services’ Americas Research group. In fact, that point was analysis by the reporter.

Document GRDN000020150227eb2r005ha



on-leadership
When shareholders want to talk about pay equality, but companies don't ; Wal-Mart, eBay and Exxon have each been hit with proposals to publicly disclose gender pay disparities.

By Jena McGregor      
1,306 words
5 March 2015
Washington Post.com
WPCOM
English
Copyright 2015, The Washington Post Co.    All Rights Reserved.      

Across the country, conversations about the gender pay gap are gaining prominence. In Washington, the Paycheck Fairness Act got a big push from Democrats before ultimately stalling in Congress last year. President Obama also signed two executive actions to boost pay transparency among federal contractors. Meanwhile, in Hollywood, a bizarre cyberattack revealed that even big-name female stars get paid less, prompting actresses to speak out on the disparity — such as Patricia Arquette who gave a rousing speech on equal pay at the Oscars.

And in company boardrooms, the issue could get pushed onto annual shareholder meeting agendas. As proxy season begins, three major companies — eBay, ExxonMobil and Wal-Mart Stores — have each been hit with proposals from shareholders calling for them to publicly disclose any pay disparities between male and female employees.

Not surprisingly, all three companies are opposing the proposals. Wal-Mart and ExxonMobil have asked the Securities and Exchange Commission for permission to exclude the measures from their proxies, the forms that determine what's covered during their annual meeting.

In recent years, companies have received shareholder proposals for greater gender diversity on their boards, yet these proposals for pay-difference disclosure appear to be a new tactic. According to sustainable investment firm Arjuna Capital, the proposal at eBay marks the first time that the gender pay gap has been put to the proxy ballot of a U.S. company. The effort aims to get eBay to publicly report any difference in pay between male and female employees and then set goals to close the gap.

Arjuna, which filed the resolution, said eBay is opposing it. A spokeswoman for eBay said in an e-mail that the company would not comment further on proposals ahead of its proxy filing, but "remains committed to fostering all types of diversity including gender diversity."

Natasha Lamb, who directs equity research and shareholder engagement for Arjuna, said she targeted the proposal to eBay not because it's any worse than its peers — precisely the opposite. Its diversity numbers are actually higher than many of the tech companies that have shared the percentage of women and minorities in their ranks. "[EBay is] a company that's working on gender equality issues, and they have an opportunity to address this even larger issue of gender pay equality," she said. The "issue is endemic to Silicon Valley and eBay has the opportunity to be a leader." 

Eve Sprunt, a former energy industry executive and geophysicist, said she filed her proposal at ExxonMobil because she felt its massive size and position as an industry leader could help shine a spotlight on the topic. Still, she's aware its odds of passing are "nonexistent"— that is, if it even gets on the ballot.

"It brings attention to the issue, and that's what I want," Sprunt said. "I'm a veteran in the trenches and have seen a huge amount of change for women over the years. What I'm trying to do at this point in my life is pay it forward."

Sprunt's proposal calls for ExxonMobil to annually report to shareholders the percentage of women in several different percentiles of compensation, such as how many women comprise the top 50 percent and top 10 percent of earners in the organization.

In a letter to the SEC, ExxonMobil's lawyers said the proposal was related to general employee compensation and "deals with matters related to the company's ordinary business operations," and thus requested that the SEC take no action against ExxonMobil if it omits the proposal from its proxy. Spokesman Scott Silvestri said in an email that the company already shares its progress on diversity in its annual Corporate Citizenship Report, "which provides a better illustration of its commitment to diversity than the reporting of additional pay data as requested in the proposal."

Wal-Mart, meanwhile, is fighting a proposal filed by Cynthia Murray, an employee at a store in Laurel, Md., and a member of the OUR Walmart organization that's pushing the company on better work schedules and pay increases. The proposal asks that the retail giant "set a goal of eliminating gender-based pay inequity" and give shareholders an annual report "on actions taken and progress made toward that goal."

"We want to see the statistics," Murray said.

Like ExxonMobil, Wal-Mart wrote in a letter to the SEC that it was seeking to exclude the proposal from its proxy because it relates to the company's "ordinary business operations" — in this case, namely its litigation strategy over pending lawsuits that have alleged gender-based pay discrimination.

"A shareholder proposal that interferes with this obligation is inappropriate, particularly when the company is involved in pending litigation on the very issues that form the basis for the proposal," the company's letter states. Wal-Mart spokesman Randy Hargrove also said the company offers female associates advancement, training and mentoring opportunities and increased its representation of women at the store management level in 2014.

All three proposals have almost no chance of getting a majority vote from shareholders. For one: Even when shareholder resolutions actually make it onto the ballot, they rarely see high levels of support, particularly if they're opposed by the company's management. Secondly, such resolutions are not binding, so the company can choose to ignore them even if they rack up plenty of votes.

"I would be surprised if any of these proposals got in excess of five percent of the votes," said Chris McGoldrick, research manager at the executive pay and governance data firm Equilar. "Most of the time, these shareholder proposals are focused on large-cap companies, and these groups just want to bring awareness around an issue."

Moreover, these investors aren't exactly prodding out-of-touch boards to adopt overdue governance changes or slash executive perks that other firms have long been embarrassed to continue. Rather, they're urging these companies to lead where others haven't yet, by publicly revealing numbers that most companies don't willingly share.

Disclosing pay-gap data is so unusual, in fact, that when retailer Gap Inc. announced audited results last year that its male and female employees are paid equally, it generated headlines. (A reminder that good personnel practices can also make for good P.R.)

Though expectations are low for companies to follow through on these shareholder proposals, Gap's move did raise the bar, said Fatima Goss Graves, vice president of education and employment at the National Women's Law Center. "The argument that it is too hard to take these steps is gone," she said. Also, many employers that are federal and state contractors, she added, already have to collect and now share summaries of their pay data with the government — which shows that sharing this information is indeed feasible for organizations. 

Goss Graves said that getting shareholders involved is critical to the overall strategy and the broader fight for equal pay. "There is a real business case against allowing gender-based pay disparities to fester," she said. "Shareholders are the exact right body to receive that message."

Research has shown that when employees aren't paid fairly, as Gross Graves pointed out, performance and worker satisfaction can suffer. "To the extent that a pay disparity is going to mean you have poorer worker performance," she said, "that's something that shareholders are going to want to know about — and should know about, too."

Read also:

Better negotiators are not the answer to resolving equal pay

At Gap, selling a place to work, not just khakis

Like On Leadership? Follow us on Facebook and Twitter.

Document WPCOM00020150303eb3300693

How others see us.(EDITORIAL)

322 words
2 March 2015
Arkansas Business
ARK
18
ISSN: 1053-6582; Volume 32; Issue 9
English
Copyright 2015 Gale Group. All rights reserved. 

The best, most stable businesses in Arkansas are the ones that were born here, and we have often wondered if the resources devoted to luring companies into Arkansas (often with promises of low wages) might be better spent on homegrown entrepreneurs.

But that's a question for another day.

Right now Arkansas is getting attention from big businesses, and not in a good way. SB202, which became law last week without Gov. Asa Hutchinson's signature, is called the Intrastate Commerce Improvement Act and its supposed purpose was to keep different cities in Arkansas from confusing companies by providing legal protection from discrimination for different classes of employees. Its real purpose and effect, of course, was to prevent any city from protecting homosexuals from workplace discrimination the way Fayetteville tried, unsuccessfully, to do.

Wal-Mart Stores Inc.--a company that knows a bit about doing business in various jurisdictions without uniform laws and is normally a political force to be reckoned with in Arkansas--ultimately came out in public opposition to SB202. But it was too late to stop that train.

Wal-Mart also opposed another proposal, HB1228, that would also have the ultimate effect of protecting discrimination against gays, although it is couched as the "Conscience Protection Act." Allowing cities to adopt differing ordinances on discrimination is unacceptably confusing, you see, but allowing every single Arkansan to let his conscience be his only guide when deciding who to discriminate against is not. HB1228 "sends the wrong message about Arkansas," a Wal-Mart spokesman said.

Joining Wal-Mart in opposing it is Apple, another company of the sort we like to have doing business in Arkansas.

We hope that HB1228 will not join SB202 as unnecessary Arkansas law. But if it does, we hope that companies looking at Arkansas from the outside will remember: Neither of these bills requires any company or individual to discriminate against anyone.

Document ARK0000020150410eb320000h

'Conscience protection' bill prompts Wal-Mart's criticism.(Government)

378 words
2 March 2015
Arkansas Business
ARK
6
ISSN: 1053-6582; Volume 32; Issue 9
English
Copyright 2015 Gale Group. All rights reserved. 

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. on Tuesday criticized a "conscience protection" measure in the retail giant's home state that opponents say sanctions discrimination against gays and lesbians, while Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson also expressed concerns about the legislation.

The proposal to prohibit state and local governments from imposing a "substantial burden" on someone's religious beliefs faced new resistance a day after Arkansas became the second state to bar cities and counties from expanding antidiscrimination protections to gays and lesbians.

Wal-Mart's criticism of the pending legislation was nearly identical to concerns it raised about the new law regarding local ordinances. The world's largest retailer, based in Bentonville, includes sexual orientation and gender identity in its nondiscrimination policy.

"While HB1228 will not change how we treat our associates and operate our business, we feel this legislation is also counter to our core basic belief of respect for the individual and sends the wrong message about Arkansas, as well as the diverse environment which exists in the state," Wal-Mart spokesman Lorenzo Lopez said in a statement.

Hutchinson, a Republican, said earlier Tuesday he had reservations about the House-backed "conscience protection" measure, but stopped short of saying whether he opposed it. Hutchinson said he has questions about how the measure would be applied. "I can see a great deal of litigation coming out of this, and so we want to have a better understanding of it," Hutchinson told reporters.

The measure would ban any local or state laws or regulations that substantially burden religious beliefs unless a "compelling governmental interest" is proven. The bill, if enacted, would strengthen any case of a person suing the government if that person could prove his religious beliefs were infringed upon.

Hutchinson's comments came a day after he allowed legislation to become law that bans local governments from expanding antidiscrimination protections to include sexual orientation or gender identity. Opponents of the measure had urged Hutchinson to veto it after he said he was concerned about it infringing on local control.

Both bills were pushed in response to a Fayetteville ordinance that barred discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. The city's voters repealed the ordinance in December.

--The Associated Press

Document ARK0000020150410eb3200005



"To Assume Is To Accept As Truth Without Checking": The Cost Of Paying Lip Service To Respectful Workplace Policies

Jennifer Craig      
770 words
2 March 2015
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2015 Mondaq Ltd      

In Boucher v. Wal-Mart Canada Corp., 2014 ONCA 419, Wal-Mart paid a high price for failing to properly investigate an employee's complaint.

Facts

Meredith Boucher began working for Wal-Mart in 1999. She was a good employee and in November 2008 she was promoted to the position of assistant manager at the Wal-Mart store in Windsor. Her immediate supervisor was the store manager, Jason Pinnock.

Boucher and Pinnock had a good working relationship until May 2009 when Boucher refused to falsify a temperature log book at the suggestion of Pinnock. Thereafter, Pinnock became abusive towards Boucher. He belittled, humiliated and demeaned her, continuously, often in front of co-workers. Boucher complained about Pinnock's misconduct to Wal-Mart's senior management through the company's "Open Door Communication Policy." The policy encouraged employees to report on a confidential basis concerns about how its stores were operated or its employees treated.

In breach of this policy, Boucher's request for a meeting with senior management was leaked to Pinnock, who then berated Boucher and subjected her to "an unrelenting and increasing torrent of abuse". Despite substantial evidence of Pinnock's abuse, including first-hand accounts from co-workers who described Pinnock's treatment of Boucher as "terrible" and "horrific", Wal-Mart found Boucher's complaints to be unsubstantiated and notified her that she would face discipline for making unsubstantiated complaints. Wal-Mart concluded that Boucher was trying to undermine Pinnock's authority.

Boucher quit after a final incident in which Pinnock forced her to count skids in front of co-workers to prove that she could count to ten.

Trial Decision

Boucher brought an action against both Wal-Mart and Pinnock and the matter was tried before a judge and jury. The jury accepted Boucher's claim that she had been constructively dismissed and awarded her damages equivalent to 20 weeks' salary, the notice period specified in her employment contract. The jury also awarded $1.45 million in aggravated and punitive damages:

Moreover, the evidence reasonably supports the jury's finding that Wal-Mart's own conduct was reprehensible. That evidence, which I reviewed earlier, includes Wal- Mart's refusal to take Boucher's complaints about Pinnock seriously, its dismissal of those complaints as unsubstantiated despite substantial evidence to the contrary, its unwillingness to discipline Pinnock or intervene to stop his continuing mistreatment of Boucher, its threatened reprisal against her, and its contravention of its workplace policies. Although Wal-Mart may not have deliberately sought Boucher's resignation, on the evidence led at trial that the jury undoubtedly accepted, Wal-Mart's actions and its inaction were reprehensible

$1.2 million against Wal-Mart

($1 million in punitive damages and $200,000 in aggravated damages); and

$250,000 against Pinnock ($150,000 in punitive damages and $100,000 for intentional infliction of mental suffering).

Decision of the Court of Appeal

The Court of Appeal upheld the jury's finding of liability. The Court condemned Wal-Mart's response (or lack thereof) to Boucher's workplace harassment complaint, characterizing its actions and inactions as "reprehensible." The Court noted:

The Court of Appeal upheld all aspects of the jury's award except for the amount of punitive damages. The punitive damages against Pinnock were reduced from $150,000 to $10,000 and those against Wal-Mart from $1 million to $100,000. In the Court's view, an award of $100,000 was what was rationally needed to punish Wal-Mart and denounce and deter its conduct.

Take-Away Point for Employers

Employers must be vigilant in enforcing respectful workplace policies. As the Court of Appeal noted, it is not enough to simply pay "lip service" to those policies. Employers should be quick to investigate any potential complaints in a fair, objective manner focusing on assessing the facts at hand and avoiding hastily drawn conclusions. This includes adhering to any pre-determined policy, having impartial investigators, collecting adequate information and making a decision that is supported by the results of the investigation.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2015 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Ms Jennifer Craig

Roper Greyell LLP

800 Park Place,

666 Burrard Street

Vancouver

BC V6C 3P3

CANADA

Tel: 6048060922

Fax: 6048060933

E-mail: info@ropergreyell.com

URL: www.ropergreyell.com

Document BBPUB00020150302eb32000bg



Business Highlights

AP      
1,536 words
25 February 2015
05:10 PM
The Canadian Press
CPR
English
(c) 2015 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved.      

TJ Maxx, Marshalls to follow Wal-Mart in raising pay

NEW YORK (AP) _ The owner of T.J. Maxx, Marshalls and HomeGoods stores became the latest retailer to boost pay for its U.S. workers, putting pressure on other chains to do the same.

TJX Cos. said Wednesday that it will increase pay for its U.S. workers to at least $9 an hour starting in June. The announcement came a week after Wal-Mart Stores Inc. said it would increase starting wages for its U.S. employees to at least $9 per hour by April and by at least $10 by February 2016. Home furnishings retailer IKEA and Gap clothing chain also have raised pay recently.

GOP lawmakers accuse Yellen of playing politics

WASHINGTON (AP) _ Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen came under fire Wednesday from House Republicans, who challenged the central bank's lack of accountability during her second day of testimony to Congress.

They questioned her opposition to GOP legislation that would expand the ability of Congress to audit the Fed's operations. They accused her of being unduly influenced by Democrats.

Yellen, who was nominated by President Barack Obama, rejected those suggestions and staunchly defended the Fed's independence.

Too big to manage? HSBC's chiefs grilled over tax scandal

LONDON (AP) _ First there was money laundering. Then foreign-exchange rigging. Now tax evasion.

HSBC, Europe's biggest bank, has endured a string of scandals and paid billions in penalties to regulators around the world. But recent revelations that its Swiss private bank helped the wealthy evade taxes are raising new questions about whether big banks like HSBC have become too vast to manage _ and who should be accountable when things go wrong.

Strong reliability scores should help Buick brand's rebirth

DETROIT (AP) _ Buick, the brand that once was the pace car for the drive to the senior centre, has made a comeback by appealing to buyers not yet ready for retirement.

U.S. sales rose 11 per cent in 2014. In China, Buick's biggest market, sales gained almost 14 per cent.

This week, strong showings in two influential quality surveys are bringing good publicity to a nameplate that was inches from the grave when its parent company, General Motors, was in bankruptcy six years ago.

Overfishing driving slavery on Thailand's seafood boats

SAMUT SAKHON, Thailand (AP) _ Urine pools under a bed where an emaciated Burmese man lies wearing only a T-shirt and a diaper.

As he struggles to sit up and steady himself, he tears at his thick, dark hair in agitation. He cannot walk and doesn't remember his family or even his own name. He speaks mostly gibberish in broken Indonesian _ a language he learned while working in the country as a slave aboard a Thai fishing boat.

Near death from a lack of proper food, he was rescued from a tiny island in Indonesia two months ago. He is just one of countless hidden casualties from the fishing industry in Thailand, the world's third-largest seafood exporter.

US new home sales fall slightly in January

WASHINGTON (AP) _ Sales of new U.S. homes were basically flat in January, evidence that recent job gains and relatively low mortgage rates have yet to spur the real estate market.

The Commerce Department said Wednesday that new home sales slipped 0.2 per cent last month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 481,000. This marks a slight decrease from sales of 482,000 homes in December, but represents a solid 5.3 per cent gain from a year ago when harsh winter weather caused home-buying to stall.

Despite the increasingly favourable economy, home sales have been sluggish at the start of the year. Still, many analysts expect that the housing market will gather momentum with the start of the spring buying season.

MetLife will pay gov't $123.5M in mortgage settlement

NEW YORK (AP) _ MetLife's home lending unit will pay $123.5 million to end an investigation into allegations it gave government-backed mortgages to people who didn't meet federal requirements.

The Justice Department said Wednesday that MetLife knew the business was issuing hundreds of loans that didn't meet federal requirements, which means they were not eligible for insurance by the Federal Housing Authority. But MetLife granted the mortgages anyway, and the agency says the FHA and taxpayers were stuck with the bill when defaults followed.

American Express raises interest rates on some credit cards

NEW YORK (AP) _ American Express increased interest rates on some of its credit card accounts by an average of 2.5 percentage points in recent weeks, a spokeswoman for the company said Wednesday.

Spokeswoman Elizabeth Crosta declined to say how many of its roughly 42 million cards would be affected. But she said Wednesday that it was a "small percentage'' of its customers.

American Express had been charging a lower interest rate, as much as 3.25 percentage points, on its credit cards compared with rates its competitors charge for customers with similar credit scores, Crosta said. The rate increase was authorized after an analysis showed the difference.

FAA: Southwest for now can use planes that missed inspection

DALLAS (AP) _ Federal officials have agreed to let Southwest Airlines Co. keep flying planes that missed an inspection of a backup rudder system if the planes are checked in the next five days.

Southwest grounded 128 planes _ about one-fifth of its fleet _ on Tuesday after discovering the missed inspections.

Southwest spokeswoman Brandy King said the groundings caused the airline to cancel about 80 flights Tuesday and 15 more by late Wednesday morning. She said crews inspected 80 of the planes overnight and will check the rest before the five-day deadline.

$100M settlement for hundreds in Florida tobacco lawsuits

MIAMI (AP) _ A $100 million settlement has been reached between three major tobacco companies and hundreds of people who sued them for smoking-related deaths and illnesses in Florida federal court.

The tentative agreement announced Wednesday involves R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Philip Morris USA Inc. and Lorillard Tobacco Co. The deal resolves about 400 cases pending before a federal judge in Jacksonville, Florida, but does not affect thousands of other lawsuits pending in Florida state courts.

Justices: Dentists unfair to limit teeth-bleaching providers

WASHINGTON (AP) _ The Supreme Court ruled Wednesday that a state regulatory board made up mostly of dentists violated federal law against unfair competition when it tried to prevent lower-cost competitors in other fields from offering teeth-whitening services.

By a 6-3 vote, the justices rejected arguments from the North Carolina State Board of Dental Examiners that it was acting in the best interests of consumers when it pressured nondentists to get out of the lucrative trade in teeth-whitening services.

Justice Anthony Kennedy said in his majority opinion that the Federal Trade Commission was right to conclude that the state regulators also had a financial interest in the market for teeth-whitening.

Justices appear to favour Muslim denied job over headscarf

WASHINGTON (AP) _ Have you heard the one about the Sikh, the Hasidic Jew, the Muslim and the nun who walked into a job interview?

Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito channeled his inner stand-up comic Wednesday in indicating that he and most of the court would side with a Muslim woman who showed up for a job interview with Abercrombie & Fitch wearing a black headscarf. She didn't get hired.

Samantha Elauf, the woman at the centre of the case about religious discrimination in hiring, was in the courtroom Wednesday. The case turns on how an employer is supposed to know that a worker or applicant has religious beliefs that need to be accommodated.

Lawsuit filed against Purina claims food sickens, kills dogs

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) _ A dog owner has filed a lawsuit against a pet food company alleging that thousands of dogs have been sickened or died from eating a brand of dry dog food.

Pet owner Frank Lucido filed the suit on Feb. 5 in U.S. District Court in the Northern District of California against Nestle Purina PetCare Co., saying he fed his three dogs Beneful "kibble'' style dog food, and within a short period of time, two were sick and one was dead.

By The Associated Press

The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 15.38 points, or 0.1 per cent, to 18,224.57. The Standard & Poor's 500 index slipped 1.62 points, or 0.1 per cent, to 2,113.86. The Nasdaq shed 1 point, or 0.02 per cent, to 4,967.14. The three indexes are all up for the year.

Benchmark U.S. crude rose $1.71 to close at $50.99 a barrel in New York. Brent crude, a benchmark for international oils used by many U.S. refineries, rose $2.97 to close at $61.63 in London. Wholesale gasoline rose 9.9 cents to close at $1.719 a gallon. Heating oil rose 7.5 cents to close at $2.104 a gallon. Natural gas fell 0.8 cents to close at $2.894 per 1,000 cubic feet.

20150225CPCPB2755      

Document CPR0000020150226eb2p0009m



Business Highlights

By The Associated Press      
1,531 words
25 February 2015
05:08 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2015.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

___

TJ Maxx, Marshalls to follow Wal-Mart in raising pay

NEW YORK (AP) — The owner of T.J. Maxx, Marshalls and HomeGoods stores became the latest retailer to boost pay for its U.S. workers, putting pressure on other chains to do the same.

TJX Cos. said Wednesday that it will increase pay for its U.S. workers to at least $9 an hour starting in June. The announcement came a week after Wal-Mart Stores Inc. said it would increase starting wages for its U.S. employees to at least $9 per hour by April and by at least $10 by February 2016. Home furnishings retailer IKEA and Gap clothing chain also have raised pay recently.

___

GOP lawmakers accuse Yellen of playing politics

WASHINGTON (AP) — Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen came under fire Wednesday from House Republicans, who challenged the central bank's lack of accountability during her second day of testimony to Congress.

They questioned her opposition to GOP legislation that would expand the ability of Congress to audit the Fed's operations. They accused her of being unduly influenced by Democrats.

Yellen, who was nominated by President Barack Obama, rejected those suggestions and staunchly defended the Fed's independence.

___

Too big to manage? HSBC's chiefs grilled over tax scandal

LONDON (AP) — First there was money laundering. Then foreign-exchange rigging. Now tax evasion.

HSBC, Europe's biggest bank, has endured a string of scandals and paid billions in penalties to regulators around the world. But recent revelations that its Swiss private bank helped the wealthy evade taxes are raising new questions about whether big banks like HSBC have become too vast to manage — and who should be accountable when things go wrong.

___

Strong reliability scores should help Buick brand's rebirth

DETROIT (AP) — Buick, the brand that once was the pace car for the drive to the senior center, has made a comeback by appealing to buyers not yet ready for retirement.

U.S. sales rose 11 percent in 2014. In China, Buick's biggest market, sales gained almost 14 percent.

This week, strong showings in two influential quality surveys are bringing good publicity to a nameplate that was inches from the grave when its parent company, General Motors, was in bankruptcy six years ago.

___

Overfishing driving slavery on Thailand's seafood boats

SAMUT SAKHON, Thailand (AP) — Urine pools under a bed where an emaciated Burmese man lies wearing only a T-shirt and a diaper.

As he struggles to sit up and steady himself, he tears at his thick, dark hair in agitation. He cannot walk and doesn't remember his family or even his own name. He speaks mostly gibberish in broken Indonesian — a language he learned while working in the country as a slave aboard a Thai fishing boat.

Near death from a lack of proper food, he was rescued from a tiny island in Indonesia two months ago. He is just one of countless hidden casualties from the fishing industry in Thailand, the world's third-largest seafood exporter.

___

US new home sales fall slightly in January

WASHINGTON (AP) — Sales of new U.S. homes were basically flat in January, evidence that recent job gains and relatively low mortgage rates have yet to spur the real estate market.

The Commerce Department said Wednesday that new home sales slipped 0.2 percent last month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 481,000. This marks a slight decrease from sales of 482,000 homes in December, but represents a solid 5.3 percent gain from a year ago when harsh winter weather caused home-buying to stall.

Despite the increasingly favorable economy, home sales have been sluggish at the start of the year. Still, many analysts expect that the housing market will gather momentum with the start of the spring buying season.

___

MetLife will pay gov't $123.5M in mortgage settlement

NEW YORK (AP) — MetLife's home lending unit will pay $123.5 million to end an investigation into allegations it gave government-backed mortgages to people who didn't meet federal requirements.

The Justice Department said Wednesday that MetLife knew the business was issuing hundreds of loans that didn't meet federal requirements, which means they were not eligible for insurance by the Federal Housing Authority. But MetLife granted the mortgages anyway, and the agency says the FHA and taxpayers were stuck with the bill when defaults followed.

___

American Express raises interest rates on some credit cards

NEW YORK (AP) — American Express increased interest rates on some of its credit card accounts by an average of 2.5 percentage points in recent weeks, a spokeswoman for the company said Wednesday.

Spokeswoman Elizabeth Crosta declined to say how many of its roughly 42 million cards would be affected. But she said Wednesday that it was a "small percentage" of its customers.

American Express had been charging a lower interest rate, as much as 3.25 percentage points, on its credit cards compared with rates its competitors charge for customers with similar credit scores, Crosta said. The rate increase was authorized after an analysis showed the difference.

___

FAA: Southwest for now can use planes that missed inspection

DALLAS (AP) — Federal officials have agreed to let Southwest Airlines Co. keep flying planes that missed an inspection of a backup rudder system if the planes are checked in the next five days.

Southwest grounded 128 planes — about one-fifth of its fleet — on Tuesday after discovering the missed inspections.

Southwest spokeswoman Brandy King said the groundings caused the airline to cancel about 80 flights Tuesday and 15 more by late Wednesday morning. She said crews inspected 80 of the planes overnight and will check the rest before the five-day deadline.

___

$100M settlement for hundreds in Florida tobacco lawsuits

MIAMI (AP) — A $100 million settlement has been reached between three major tobacco companies and hundreds of people who sued them for smoking-related deaths and illnesses in Florida federal court.

The tentative agreement announced Wednesday involves R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Philip Morris USA Inc. and Lorillard Tobacco Co. The deal resolves about 400 cases pending before a federal judge in Jacksonville, Florida, but does not affect thousands of other lawsuits pending in Florida state courts.

___

Justices: Dentists unfair to limit teeth-bleaching providers

WASHINGTON (AP) — The Supreme Court ruled Wednesday that a state regulatory board made up mostly of dentists violated federal law against unfair competition when it tried to prevent lower-cost competitors in other fields from offering teeth-whitening services.

By a 6-3 vote, the justices rejected arguments from the North Carolina State Board of Dental Examiners that it was acting in the best interests of consumers when it pressured nondentists to get out of the lucrative trade in teeth-whitening services.

Justice Anthony Kennedy said in his majority opinion that the Federal Trade Commission was right to conclude that the state regulators also had a financial interest in the market for teeth-whitening.

___

Justices appear to favor Muslim denied job over headscarf

WASHINGTON (AP) — Have you heard the one about the Sikh, the Hasidic Jew, the Muslim and the nun who walked into a job interview?

Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito channeled his inner stand-up comic Wednesday in indicating that he and most of the court would side with a Muslim woman who showed up for a job interview with Abercrombie & Fitch wearing a black headscarf. She didn't get hired.

Samantha Elauf, the woman at the center of the case about religious discrimination in hiring, was in the courtroom Wednesday. The case turns on how an employer is supposed to know that a worker or applicant has religious beliefs that need to be accommodated.

___

Lawsuit filed against Purina claims food sickens, kills dogs

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — A dog owner has filed a lawsuit against a pet food company alleging that thousands of dogs have been sickened or died from eating a brand of dry dog food.

Pet owner Frank Lucido filed the suit on Feb. 5 in U.S. District Court in the Northern District of California against Nestle Purina PetCare Co., saying he fed his three dogs Beneful "kibble" style dog food, and within a short period of time, two were sick and one was dead.

___

By The Associated Press=

The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 15.38 points, or 0.1 percent, to 18,224.57. The Standard & Poor's 500 index slipped 1.62 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,113.86. The Nasdaq shed 1 point, or 0.02 percent, to 4,967.14. The three indexes are all up for the year.

Benchmark U.S. crude rose $1.71 to close at $50.99 a barrel in New York. Brent crude, a benchmark for international oils used by many U.S. refineries, rose $2.97 to close at $61.63 in London. Wholesale gasoline rose 9.9 cents to close at $1.719 a gallon. Heating oil rose 7.5 cents to close at $2.104 a gallon. Natural gas fell 0.8 cents to close at $2.894 per 1,000 cubic feet.

Document APRS000020150225eb2p009q1



BC-APFN-Business News Digest

1,984 words
25 February 2015
04:04 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2015.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

Business News at 5 p.m.

The supervisor is Richard Jacobsen (800-845-8450, ext. 1680). For photos, ext. 1900. For graphics and interactives, ext. 7636. Expanded AP content can be obtained from http://www.apexchange.com. For access to AP Exchange and other technical issues, contact customersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.

If you have questions about transmission of financial market listings, please call 800-3AP-STOX.

A selection of top photos can be found at: http://bit.ly/APTopPhotos

All times EST.

—Adds: SUPREME COURT-RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION, PET FOOD LAWSUIT, TRAIN-TRUCK-CRASH-TECHNOLOGY, CYBER-SECURITY-NEW YORK

—Updates: FINANCIAL MARKETS

TOP STORIES:

TJX-WORKER PAY RAISE

NEW YORK — TJX Cos., the owner of T.J. Maxx, Marshalls and Home Goods stores, follows Wal-Mart by saying it will boost pay for U.S. workers to at least $9 per hour. TJX is the first of what's expected to be many rivals following the lead of the world's largest retailer. By Joe Pisani and Anne D'Innocenzio. SENT: 680 words, photo.

YELLEN-WHAT WE LEARNED

WASHINGTON — Over two days of testimony to Congress, Federal Reserve Chair was grilled on everything from interest rates to the economy to 'Audit the Fed' legislation supported by Republicans. Here are the three big things we learned (and a couple of lingering questions) from Yellen's semiannual appearance before lawmakers. By Martin Crutsinger. UPCOMING: 700 words by 6 p.m., photos. Incorporates YELLEN-TESTIMONY.

BRITAIN-HSBC

LONDON — HSBC, Europe's biggest bank, has endured a string of scandals and paid billions in penalties to regulators around the world. But recent revelations that its Swiss private bank helped the wealthy evade taxes are raising new questions about whether big banks like HSBC have become too vast to manage — and who should be accountable when things go wrong. By Danica Kirka. SENT: 940 words, photos.

With:

— GREECE-EX-MINISTER-TRIAL — Former Greek finance minister George Papaconstantinou appears in court at the start of his criminal trial against him on charges that he removed relatives' names from a list of Greeks holding Swiss bank accounts in HSBC. SENT: 280 words.

VEHICLE DEPENDABILITY

DETROIT — Lexus rates as the most dependable car brand for the fourth consecutive year in J.D. Power's annual survey. Buick, Toyota, Cadillac and Honda and Porsche — which were tied — round out the top five spots. By Dee-Ann Durbin. SENT: 420 words, photos.

With:

— AUTOS-DEPENDABILITY-MODELS — The most dependable models by segment. SENT: 130 words.

THAILAND-FISHING-PIRATES AND SLAVES

SAMUT SAKHON, Thailand — A report by the British nonprofit Environmental Justice Foundation says overfishing and the use of illegal and undocumented trawlers have ravaged Thailand's marine ecosystems and depleted fish stocks. Boats are now catching about 85 percent less than what they brought in 50 years ago, making it "one of the most overfished regions on the planet," the report said. By Robin McDowell and Margie Mason. SENT: 1,050 words, photos.

MARKETS & ECONOMY:

FINANCIAL MARKETS

NEW YORK —The Dow Jones industrial average notches its third record high close in a row, even as other market indexes end lower. By Alex Veiga. SENT: 600 words. UPCOMING: 700 words by 5:30 p.m.

NEW HOME SALES

WASHINGTON — Sales of new U.S. homes were basically flat in January, evidence that recent job gains and relatively low mortgage rates have yet to spur the real estate market. By Josh Boak. SENT: 600 words, photo.

INDUSTRY:

— METLIFE-MORTGAGE FINE — MetLife's home lending unit will pay $123.5 million to end an investigation into allegations it gave government-backed mortgages to people who didn't meet federal requirements. SENT: 240 words.

— AMERICAN EXPRESS INTEREST RATES — American Express is increasing the interest rate on some of its credit card accounts by an average of 2.5 percentage points. SENT: 540 words.

— SOUTHWEST AIRLINES-INSPECTIONS — Federal officials agree to let Southwest Airlines Co. keep flying planes that missed an inspection of a backup rudder system if the planes are checked in the next five days. Southwest grounded 128 planes — about one-fifth of its fleet — on Tuesday after discovering the missed inspections. SENT: 360 words.

— FLORIDA SMOKERS — A $100 million settlement has been reached between three major tobacco companies and hundreds of people who sued them for smoking-related deaths and illnesses in Florida federal court. SENT: 490 words.

— GLAXOSMITHKLINE-DIET PILL — GlaxoSmithKline's diet pill, alli, is now back in most U.S. stores. SENT: 150 words.

— SUPREME COURT-TEETH WHITENING — The Supreme Court rules that a state regulatory board made up mostly of dentists violated federal law against unfair competition when it tried to prevent lower-cost competitors in other fields from offering teeth-whitening services. SENT: 410 words.

— SUPREME COURT-RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION — Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito channels his inner stand-up comic in indicating that he and most of the court would side with a Muslim woman who showed up for a job interview with Abercrombie & Fitch wearing a black headscarf. She didn't get hired. SENT: 900 words.

— PET FOOD LAWSUIT — A dog owner has filed a lawsuit against Purina PetCare Company alleging that thousands of dogs have been sickened or died from eating a brand of the company's dry dog food. SENT: 510 words.

— TRAIN-TRUCK-CRASH-TECHNOLOGY — Nearly a decade ago, the U.S. secretary of transportation stood at the site of a horrendous commuter train crash near downtown Los Angeles and called for the adoption of a new train car design that testing showed could blunt the tremendous force of a head-on collision. SENT: 660 words.

— CYBER-SECURITY-NEW YORK — New York's top financial regulator says his office is considering tougher cyber security requirements for banks with more complex computer sign-ins and certifications from their contractors of their defenses. SENT: 340 words.

EARNINGS:

TARGET-RESULTS

NEW YORK — Target Corp. delivers a cautious profit outlook for the first quarter and reports a loss in its fourth quarter, dragged down by costs to end its money-losing foray in Canada. By Anne D'Innocenzio. SENT: 570 words, photo.

— EARNS-LOWE'S — Lowe's fourth-quarter profit climbs as an improving economy gives homeowners more confidence to take on home projects. SENT: 400 words, photo.

— DENMARK-EARNS-LEGO — The transformation of Lego, the Danish toy company famous for its multi-colored building blocks, reaped further dividends last year as it benefited from its successful foray into the world of cinema. SENT: 270 words.

TECHNOLOGY & MEDIA:

GOOGLE-ANDROID FOR WORK

SAN FRANCISCO — Google is releasing a set of tools designed for businesses and employees who want to get work done on smartphones running on the company's Android software. SENT: 510 words.

MODERN FAMILY-PHONING IT IT-Q&A

NEW YORK — "Modern Family" producers put away their expensive professional cameras and captured Wednesday's episode with iPhones and other Apple devices. The Associated Press speaks by phone with executive producer Steve Levitan to discuss some of the thinking and lessons learned. By Anick Jesdanun. SENT: 740 words, photo.

NET NEUTRALITY-FACT CHECK

WASHINGTON — The Federal Communications Commission votes Thursday on whether to put Internet service in the same regulatory camp as the telephone. Critics call the plan a government takeover of your Netflix account. Supporters say it'll protect the status quo. A look at the rhetoric in the "net neutrality" debate. By Anne Flaherty. SENT: 850 words, photo.

COMPUTERIZED GAMER

WASHINGTON — Google scientists have cooked up software that can do better than humans on dozens of old fashioned Atari video games. That may sound like not much of an accomplishment, but this proved something other deep thinking programs didn't. By Seth Borenstein. SENT: 660 words, photo.

— WIRELESS SHOW-MOTOROLA — Motorola is updating its low-cost smartphone, the Moto E, as it targets first-time smartphone buyers worldwide. SENT: 310 words.

— NSA-SURVEILLANCE — A Dutch SIM-maker allegedly targeted by British and U.S. spying agencies says it believes there was a hacking operation, but it didn't result in a massive privacy leak. SENT: 330 words, photos.

— UBER-STARWOOD PARTNERSHIP — Uber is partnering with hotel chain Starwood to give riders a bit more incentive to choose the ride-hailing service over a taxi. SENT: 290 words, photo.

— APPLE-PATENT DISPUTE — A federal jury says Apple should pay nearly $533 million to resolve claims that the payment system tied to its iTunes product infringes on patents issued to a business named Smartflash. SENT: 550 words.

— EUROPOL-CYBERCRIME — European police take down a computer network that used malicious software to infect more than 3 million computers worldwide and steal personal data, banking details and passwords. SENT: 150 words, photo.

INTERNATIONAL:

COLOMBIA-CRUDE REALITIES

PUERTO GAITAN, Colombia — Soaring oil prices the past decade transformed this rural backwater into Colombia's richest city as nearby fields pumped black gold, drawing new businesses, international pop stars and vanity art projects. Now, crashing crude prices have the 45,000 residents of Puerto Gaitan bracing for a big fall, or already packing their bags. By Jacobo G. Garcia. SENT: 910 words, photos.

GREECE-BAILOUT

ATHENS, Greece — Greece's prime minister briefs his party's lawmakers on pledges made to European creditors to win a four-month extension of the country's bailout, amid simmering discontent with what some see as a capitulation. SENT: 600 words, photos.

— EUROPE-ECONOMY — France will avoid punishment over its public finances after the European Union gave Paris two more years to meet budget targets. SENT: 290 words, photos.

— RUSSIA-UKRAINE-GAS — President Vladimir Putin warns that Russia will cut gas supplies to Ukraine if it fails to pay in advance for future deliveries. SENT: 240 words, photos.

— EUROPE-ENERGY — The European Union's executive has unveiled a vast plan to merge the EU's 28 national energy markets with the aim of providing cheaper energy for consumers and weaning Europe off Russian gas supplies. SENT: 360 words, photos.

— RUSSIA-SANCTIONS — The chairman of the Russian Security Council says Western sanctions are threatening the country's oil and gas industry. SENT: 140 words.

— HONG KONG-BUDGET — Hong Kong's finance chief unveils $37 million in measures aimed at giving relief to some business owners and restoring confidence in the Asian financial hub following pro-democracy protests last year that choked traffic for 11 weeks. SENT: 310 words, photos.

— BRAZIL-TRUCKERS PROTEST — Weeklong protests by Brazilian truckers demanding lower fuel and toll prices have spread, causing shortages of gasoline and other products. SENT: 240 words.

PERSONAL FINANCE:

ON THE MONEY-OUT-OF-POCKET MED EXPENSES

The clock on insurance deductibles reset on Jan. 1, and that means big medical bills are in store for some. Patients may be required to pay thousands of dollars before their health care coverage kicks in. By Tom Murphy. SENT: 780 words.

A sampling of Money & Markets modules is below. The full digest for AP's Money & Markets service can be found at markets.ap.org. For questions about Money & Markets content, please contact Trevor Delaney (800-845-8450, ext. 1807). For technical support: Todd Balog (816-654-1096). After 6 p.m., contact the AP Business News desk (800-845-8450, ext. 1680) for content questions; 1-800-3AP-STOX for technical support and 212-621-1905 for graphics help.

CENTERPIECE

What hedge funds are buying

Hedge funds bet big on Apple as 2015 approached, and it's paying off. Apple was the most popular stock among hedge funds at the end of 2014, according to a Goldman Sachs review of which stocks appeared most often in their top-10 holding. UPCOMING: Graphic expected by 6 p.m.

COMPANY SPOTLIGHT

HP stumbles, shares fall

Hewlett-Packard shares fall after the computer maker reports disappointing quarterly revenue and gives a weak earnings outlook. UPCOMING: Graphic expected by 6 p.m.

Document APRS000020150225eb2p007x5



Wal-Mart opposes Arkansas 'conscience protection' measure critics cast as anti-LGBT

AP      
151 words
24 February 2015
05:02 PM
The Canadian Press
CPR
English
(c) 2015 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved.      

LITTLE ROCK, Ark. _ Wal-Mart says it opposes a "conscience protection'' bill in the retail giant's home state of Arkansas that critics say would sanction discrimination against gays and lesbians.

A spokesman for the Bentonville-based company said Tuesday it opposes the bill pending before a Senate panel that would prohibit state and local governments from imposing a "substantial burden'' on someone's religious beliefs. The company said the legislation sends the wrong message about Arkansas.

The statement comes a day after Wal-Mart criticized for identical reasons a measure barring local governments from expanding anti-discrimination ordinances to include sexual orientation or gender identity. Gov. Asa Hutchinson allowed that measure to become law without his signature.

Opponents of both measures had waged intense social media campaigns urging Wal-Mart to speak out against the legislation.

20150224CPCPW1880      

Document CPR0000020150225eb2o0008o



Wal-Mart criticizes 'conscience protection' measure

By ANDREW DeMILLO      
Associated Press      
638 words
24 February 2015
05:29 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2015.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) — Wal-Mart on Tuesday criticized a "conscience protection" measure in the retail giant's home state that opponents say sanctions discrimination against gays and lesbians, while Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson also expressed concerns about the legislation.

The proposal to prohibit state and local governments from imposing a "substantial burden" on someone's religious beliefs faced new resistance a day after Arkansas became the second state to bar cities and counties from expanding anti-discrimination protections to gays and lesbians.

Bentonville-based Wal-Mart's criticism of the pending legislation was nearly identical to concerns it raised about the new law regarding local ordinances. The world's largest retailer includes sexual orientation and gender identity in its non-discrimination policy.

"While HB1228 will not change how we treat our associates and operate our business, we feel this legislation is also counter to our core basic belief of respect for the individual and sends the wrong message about Arkansas, as well as the diverse environment which exists in the state," Wal-Mart spokesman Lorenzo Lopez said in a statement.

Hutchinson, a Republican, said earlier Tuesday he had reservations the House-backed "conscience protection" measure, but stopped short of saying whether he opposed it. Hutchinson said he has questions about how the measure would be applied.

"I can see a great deal of litigation coming out of this, and so we want to have a better understanding of it," Hutchinson told reporters.

The measure would ban any local or state laws or regulations that substantially burden religious beliefs unless a "compelling governmental interest" is proven. The bill, if enacted, would strengthen any case of a person suing the government if that person could prove their religious beliefs were infringed upon.

The legislation is patterned after the federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993. According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, 19 states have similar laws and 10 states are currently considering them. Hutchinson said he understands the desire to protect religious freedom, but said he needed more information on the bill's impact.

"Part of it is, if as a lawyer I can't get a good grasp of it one time through, then it makes me wonder how this is going to be interpreted by the courts," Hutchinson said. "It's just the unintended consequences of legislation is what you've got to look at very carefully."

Hutchinson's comments came a day after he allowed legislation to become law that bans local governments from expanding anti-discrimination protections to include sexual orientation or gender identity. Opponents of the measure had urged Hutchinson to veto it after he said he was concerned about it infringing on local control.

Both bills were pushed in response to a Fayetteville ordinance that barred discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. The city's voters repealed the ordinance in December.

Gay rights groups have shifted their attention to the "conscience protection" measure, calling it another thinly veiled attempt to endorse bias against the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community.

"HB1228 is equally disturbing and allows any person to claim religious belief as their grounds for discriminatory acts," Kendra Johnson, state director for the Human Rights Campaign, said in a statement issued Monday. "Simply put, state senators should erase it from the legislative agenda."

The measure was expected to go before a Senate panel on Wednesday. Its sponsor said he planned to talk with Hutchinson about his concerns.

"I know the bill real well and I know Asa, where he stands on the issue," Republican Rep. Bob Ballinger of Hindsville said. "I think in the end he'll side with protecting people's religious freedom."

___

Follow Andrew DeMillo on Twitter at www.twitter.com/ademillo

Document APRS000020150224eb2o0086p



Wal-Mart criticizes Arkansas 'conscience protection' measure

152 words
24 February 2015
05:20 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2015.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) — Wal-Mart is criticizing a "conscience protection" bill in the retail giant's home state of Arkansas that opponents say would sanction discrimination against gays and lesbians.

A spokesman for the Bentonville-based company said Tuesday the bill pending before a Senate panel that would prohibit state and local governments from imposing a "substantial burden" on someone's religious beliefs sends the wrong message about Arkansas and runs counter to the company's core beliefs.

The statement comes a day after Wal-Mart criticized for identical reasons a measure barring local governments from expanding anti-discrimination ordinances to include sexual orientation or gender identity. Gov. Asa Hutchinson, who allowed that measure to become law without his signature, expressed reservations about the "conscience protection" bill.

Opponents of both measures had urged Wal-Mart to speak out against the legislation.

Document APRS000020150224eb2o008q8



Arkansas bars broader local rights for gays and lesbians; Wal-mart says it sends wrong message

BY ANDREW DEMILLO      
AP      
777 words
23 February 2015
06:06 PM
The Canadian Press
CPR
English
(c) 2015 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved.      

LITTLE ROCK, Ark. _ Arkansas on Monday banned local governments from expanding anti-discrimination protections to include sexual orientation and gender identity, a move criticized by retail giant Wal-Mart and gay rights groups who said the prohibition damaged the state's image.

Republican Gov. Asa Hutchinson allowed legislation to go into law without his signature that bars cities and counties from expanding anti-discrimination ordinances beyond what the state already prohibits, making Arkansas the second state to approve such a prohibition. Arkansas' anti-discrimination protections don't include sexual orientation or gender identity. Monday marked the end of the five-day window for Hutchinson to take action on the bill or allow it to become law.

Hutchinson had raised concerns about the bill infringing on local control, but said he wouldn't veto it. His office said his position hadn't changed and he allowed the proposal to become law, despite a last-ditch campaign by advocacy groups urging him to veto the legislation. The law won't take effect until 90 days after the Legislature formally adjourns, which is currently set for May.

Bentonville-based Wal-Mart, which had been the focus of an intense social media campaign by opponents of the measure, criticized the prohibition late Monday afternoon. The world's largest retailer includes sexual orientation and gender identity in its non-discrimination policy.

"Every day, in our stores, we see firsthand the benefits diversity and inclusion have on our associates, customers and communities we serve. It all starts with the core basic belief of respect for the individual. And that means understanding and respecting differences and being inclusive of all people,'' Wal-Mart spokesman Lorenzo Lopez said in a statement. "We feel this legislation is counter to this core basic belief and sends the wrong message about Arkansas.''

Opponents of the ban were weighing a lawsuit to challenge the measure's constitutionality.

"It's just another scar on the face of a state that really doesn't need any more signs of an intolerance toward outsiders, toward people that some people disapprove of,'' said Rita Sklar, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Arkansas.

The measure was introduced in reaction to an ordinance in the city of Fayetteville, where voters expanded the city's anti-discrimination protections. Eureka Springs in northwest Arkansas enacted a similar measure earlier this month, and Little Rock elected officials are weighing expanding that city's discrimination protections.

The Republican lawmaker behind the proposal said it was aimed at levelling the playing field so businesses aren't faced with different laws throughout the state.

"To think we could have different civil rights laws in every city is not realistic and not conducive to a good business environment,'' said Sen. Bart Hester, R-Cave Springs.

But opponents of the measure said it's motivated by animus toward gays and lesbians, calling local government ordinances easy targets for conservatives.

"I think for folks who really want to turn back the tide on LGBT equality, these bills are unfortunately something they're looking into,'' said Cathryn Oakley, legislative counsel for state and municipal advocacy for the Human Rights Campaign, an LGBT advocacy group.

The conservative Family Research Council called the law a model for other states.

"We would support the passage of similar bills in other states,'' said Peter Sprigg, a senior fellow for policy studies with the group.

Tennessee, the only other state with such a measure, enacted its restriction in 2011, effectively voiding a Nashville ordinance barring companies that discriminate against gays and lesbians from doing business with the city. A state appeals court dismissed a lawsuit against the restriction last year.

Texas lawmakers are considering several similar proposals after Houston, Fort Worth, Austin and San Antonio passed anti-bias protections for gays and lesbians.

Hutchinson, who was in Washington and unavailable for comment, said earlier this month that he understood the need to prevent "burdensome regulations on businesses across the state'' but was worried about the impact on local control. Opponents of the bill had set up a website and waged a social media campaign urging Hutchinson to veto bill.

Hutchinson hasn't said what he'll do about another proposal pending before the Legislature that opponents have derided as sanctioning discrimination. A Senate panel is expected this week to take up the House-backed bill, which bars the state or local governments from placing a "substantial burden'' on a person's right to exercise their religion.

Follow Andrew DeMillo on Twitter at www.twitter.com/ademillo

20150223CPCPB0448      

Document CPR0000020150224eb2o0008r



Arkansas bars expanding local protections for gays, lesbians

By ANDREW DeMILLO      
Associated Press      
773 words
23 February 2015
06:04 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2015.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) — Arkansas on Monday banned local governments from expanding anti-discrimination protections to include sexual orientation and gender identity, a move criticized by retail giant Wal-Mart and gay rights groups who said the prohibition damaged the state's image.

Republican Gov. Asa Hutchinson allowed legislation to go into law without his signature that bars cities and counties from expanding anti-discrimination ordinances beyond what the state already prohibits, making Arkansas the second state to approve such a prohibition. Arkansas' anti-discrimination protections don't include sexual orientation or gender identity. Monday marked the end of the five-day window for Hutchinson to take action on the bill or allow it to become law.

Hutchinson had raised concerns about the bill infringing on local control, but said he wouldn't veto it. His office said his position hadn't changed and he allowed the proposal to become law, despite a last-ditch campaign by advocacy groups urging him to veto the legislation. The law won't take effect until 90 days after the Legislature formally adjourns, which is currently set for May.

Bentonville-based Wal-Mart, which had been the focus of an intense social media campaign by opponents of the measure, criticized the prohibition late Monday afternoon. The world's largest retailer includes sexual orientation and gender identity in its non-discrimination policy.

"Every day, in our stores, we see firsthand the benefits diversity and inclusion have on our associates, customers and communities we serve. It all starts with the core basic belief of respect for the individual. And that means understanding and respecting differences and being inclusive of all people," Wal-Mart spokesman Lorenzo Lopez said in a statement. "We feel this legislation is counter to this core basic belief and sends the wrong message about Arkansas."

Opponents of the ban were weighing a lawsuit to challenge the measure's constitutionality.

"It's just another scar on the face of a state that really doesn't need any more signs of an intolerance toward outsiders, toward people that some people disapprove of," said Rita Sklar, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Arkansas.

The measure was introduced in reaction to an ordinance in the city of Fayetteville, where voters expanded the city's anti-discrimination protections. Eureka Springs in northwest Arkansas enacted a similar measure earlier this month, and Little Rock elected officials are weighing expanding that city's discrimination protections.

The Republican lawmaker behind the proposal said it was aimed at leveling the playing field so businesses aren't faced with different laws throughout the state.

"To think we could have different civil rights laws in every city is not realistic and not conducive to a good business environment," said Sen. Bart Hester, R-Cave Springs.

But opponents of the measure said it's motivated by animus toward gays and lesbians, calling local government ordinances easy targets for conservatives.

"I think for folks who really want to turn back the tide on LGBT equality, these bills are unfortunately something they're looking into," said Cathryn Oakley, legislative counsel for state and municipal advocacy for the Human Rights Campaign, an LGBT advocacy group.

The conservative Family Research Council called the law a model for other states.

"We would support the passage of similar bills in other states," said Peter Sprigg, a senior fellow for policy studies with the group.

Tennessee, the only other state with such a measure, enacted its restriction in 2011, effectively voiding a Nashville ordinance barring companies that discriminate against gays and lesbians from doing business with the city. A state appeals court dismissed a lawsuit against the restriction last year.

Texas lawmakers are considering several similar proposals after Houston, Fort Worth, Austin and San Antonio passed anti-bias protections for gays and lesbians.

Hutchinson, who was in Washington and unavailable for comment, said earlier this month that he understood the need to prevent "burdensome regulations on businesses across the state" but was worried about the impact on local control. Opponents of the bill had set up a website and waged a social media campaign urging Hutchinson to veto bill.

Hutchinson hasn't said what he'll do about another proposal pending before the Legislature that opponents have derided as sanctioning discrimination. A Senate panel is expected this week to take up the House-backed bill, which bars the state or local governments from placing a "substantial burden" on a person's right to exercise their religion.

___

Follow Andrew DeMillo on Twitter at www.twitter.com/ademillo

Document APRS000020150223eb2n0061b



Wal-Mart opposes new Arkansas law some see as allowing bias against gays and lesbians

AP      
157 words
23 February 2015
05:57 PM
The Canadian Press
CPR
English
(c) 2015 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved.      

LITTLE ROCK, Ark. _ Wal-Mart Stores Inc. says it opposes a new law in its home state of Arkansas to ban cities and counties from expanding anti-discrimination protections to include sexual orientation and gender identity.

A spokesman for the world's largest retailer on Monday said the proposal that became law earlier in the day runs counter to its beliefs and "sends the wrong message about Arkansas.'' Wal-Mart is based in Bentonville in northwest Arkansas.

The measure, which takes effect later this year, bans local governments from expanding anti-discrimination ordinances beyond state law, which doesn't include sexual orientation or gender identity.

Republican Gov. Asa Hutchinson allowed the legislation to become law without his signature after citing concerns about it infringing on local control. Opponents of it had urged Wal-Mart to speak out against the measure.

20150223CPCPW1504      

Document CPR0000020150224eb2n0008k



Business
Workers and critics greet Walmart pay raise but say much remains to be done

Steven Greenhouse      
1,389 words
23 February 2015
09:21 AM
The Guardian
GRDN
English
© Copyright 2015.    The Guardian.    All rights reserved.      

Rise of minimum pay to $9 an hour will affect 500,000 workersMember of union-backed group: ‘It pleased us, but they haven’t pacified us’

By trumpeting its plan to raise pay for 500,000 workers, Walmart clearly hopes to end once and for all its reputation as a bottom-of-the-barrel employer. Mind you, this is the company that has been hounded for years by protesters shouting about rock-bottom wages, off-the-clock work, sexual  discrimination, union busting and the use of unsafe factories in Bangladesh.

Related: Walmart to boost pay for half a million workers

Burt P Flickinger III, a retail industry analyst who is a frequent critic of Walmart, lauded last Thursday’s announcement that the company would raise its minimum pay to $9 an hour.

“Walmart is going from being an unsatisfactory employer to a satisfactory one,” he said. He stopped short, however, of saying that Walmart has climbed into the ranks of good employers, noting that it pays its workers $10 less an hour on average than Costco.

Lisa Pietro, a 57-year-old produce worker at a Walmart in Winter Haven, Florida, also applauded the announcement. “I’m excited about it,” she said. “It pleased us, but they haven’t pacified us.”

“This is just the beginning,” added Pietro, a member of Our Walmart, a union-backed group of Walmart employees pushing the company to pay a minimum of $15 an hour. “There’s no way we’re going to sit back. We’re going to continue pushing for more.”

A part-time employee earning $8.95 an hour, Pietro said the raise to $9 an hour wouldn’t do much for her, although she will be helped by Walmart’s promise to raise the wages of all current workers to at least $10 next year.

Years of low pay, Pietro said, have hurt morale among Walmart’s workers. The day before Walmart announced the pay increases, however, a little-noticed report was released containing some bad news for the world’s largest retailer. The American Consumer Satisfaction Index ranked Walmart dead last among major department and discount chains, its consumer ratings falling sharply from the year before. And that came after Consumer Reports ranked Walmart 55th out of 55 supermarket chains last year, based on a customer satisfaction survey of 27,200 subscribers.

Related: Walmart joins Ikea, Aetna and Gap in raising wages for lowest-paid workers

Some observers say that Walmart – with nearly $486bn in revenue last year – announced the pay increases simply because the labor market was tightening and it wanted to ensure it would be able to attract good employees. But Flickinger said the reasons for the raises went well beyond that, and were a response to both lagging business performance and a wave of bothersome nationwide protests.

Low wages often mean high employee turnover and unenthusiastic workers, Flickinger said, and that can translate into poor customer service and low customer satisfaction. Retail industry analysts often note that Costco and Trader Joe’s get higher marks for both customer satisfaction and how they pay and treat their employees.

In announcing the raises on Thursday, Walmart’s chief executive, Doug McMillon, seemed to recognize a link between pay and customer satisfaction – or the lack thereof.

“As we take a step back and think about our future, it’s clear to me that one of our highest priorities must be to invest more in our people this year,” he said. “We want to reward associates for their service to our customers and improve the customer experience in our stores.”

Flickinger said the raises were also a response to years of labor protests backed by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union. He said Walmart no doubt hoped that the raises would help persuade union-friendly cities that have kept out or largely kept out Walmart stores – including New York, Los Angeles and Boston – to relent. As Walmart faces intense pressure from Amazon and various dollar-store chains, it sees significant opportunities for expansion in those cities and hopes labor advocates will rethink their opposition.

‘A good thing’ but no breakthrough Dan Schlademan, director of Making Change at Walmart, a union-backed campaign to improve wages and conditions for Walmart’s 1.3 million US workers, voiced frustration at those who say Walmart’s round of raises was in no way a response to the labor protests that culminate each year at hundreds of stores on Black Friday. In its half-century of existence, he said, Walmart has experienced many periods of tight labor markets but has never, until last week, announced such a major round of pay increases.

“It’s never done anything like this,” he said. “It comes at a time of unprecedented worker unrest and community unrest for Walmart.”

He acknowledged that Walmart has improved in numerous ways: for instance, largely eliminating off-the-clock work and doing far more to ensure safety at apparel factories in Bangladesh.

“What history has shown about Walmart is that only when there is scrutiny of what this company is doing, do they move in the right direction,” Schlademan said.

Nelson Lichtenstein, the author of two books on Walmart and a labor historian at the University of California, Santa Barbara, welcomed the announcement on raises, saying “better late than never”.

“This is a good thing, but I don’t see it as a breakthrough,” he said.

He said the promised raise to $10 next year would have the biggest effect where Walmart first got started: in the rural south, where wages are lowest. He predicted the pay raises would have a major ripple effect – at dollar stores, at Target and Kmart, even at McDonald’s and other fast-food restaurants. Walmart’s move places public relations pressure on those companies to follow suit, as well as economic pressure. If those companies want to attract good workers – and not lose employees to Walmart – they, too, may need to pay at least $10 an hour.

Lichtenstein said Walmart didn’t go far enough to raise pay, and that its move would still leave many part-time workers in poverty. For an $8.50-an-hour employee working 25 hours a week, a raise to $10 will mean earnings of $250 a week or $13,000 a year, up from the current $212.50 a week or $11,050 a year. At that level, many workers will continue turning to food stamps and Medicaid.

“Increasing hours is what’s really needed to increase take-home pay,” Lichtenstein said. “If they moved a substantially higher percentage of workers to 40 hours a week at a starting wage of $10, that would make a difference.”

Many Walmart stores used to run 70% full-time employees and 30% part-time, but now at many stores, less than 50% of the employees are full-time. Lichtenstein called on Walmart to return to 70% full-time.

Lisa Pietro, the Florida worker, said it would be a godsend if Walmart promised her 40 hours every week. And she of course hopes Walmart will agree to the demand to pay everyone at least $15 an hour. She would also like Walmart to adopt friendlier, less volatile work schedules – McMillon promised the company would make some improvements in scheduling, without giving details

Pietro said she recently worked until 10 one night and then had to return at 5am the next day. She said she got just four hours of sleep that night. “They’re not getting my 110% when I walk through the door,” she said.

She didn’t doubt that the pressures and protests would continue. “This is the first step of a long journey and I look forward to being there for the rest of this journey,” she said.

Thomas Kochan, a professor of industrial relations at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Sloan School of Management, agreed.

“What Walmart did is a big deal, but it’s only a first step,” he said. “There’s going to be more. They’ve now acknowledged that they’re a low-paying company, and once you start raising wages a bit, you’re going to face a lot of pressure to do more.”

Document GRDN000020150224eb2n0025w



Wal-Mart opposes Arkansas law some see as allowing LGBT bias

155 words
23 February 2015
05:40 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2015.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) — Wal-Mart Stores Inc. says it opposes a new law in its home state of Arkansas to ban cities and counties from expanding anti-discrimination protections to include sexual orientation and gender identity.

A spokesman for the world's largest retailer on Monday said the proposal that became law earlier in the day runs counter to its beliefs and "sends the wrong message about Arkansas." Wal-Mart is based in Bentonville in northwest Arkansas.

The measure, which takes effect later this year, bans local governments from expanding anti-discrimination ordinances beyond state law, which doesn't include sexual orientation or gender identity.

Republican Gov. Asa Hutchinson allowed the legislation to become law without his signature after citing concerns about it infringing on local control. Opponents of it had urged Wal-Mart to speak out against the measure.

Document APRS000020150223eb2n006d5



2 sides in West Coast ports dispute reach tentative contract

By JUSTIN PRITCHARD      
Associated Press      
1,549 words
21 February 2015
12:01 AM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2015.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

LOS ANGELES (AP) — Negotiators reached a tentative contract covering West Coast dockworkers on Friday evening, likely ending a protracted labor dispute that snarled international trade at seaports handling about $1 trillion worth of cargo annually.

The breakthrough came after nine months of talks that turned contentious in the fall, when dockworkers and their employers began blaming each other for problems getting imports to consumers and exports overseas.

The five-year deal still must be approved by the 13,000-member International Longshore and Warehouse Union's rank-and-file. They work 29 ports from San Diego to Seattle that handle about one-quarter of all U.S. international trade, much of it with Asia.

U.S. Secretary of Labor Thomas Perez, who this week began overseeing talks in San Francisco — where both the union and maritime association of employers are based — said that both the dockworkers' union and their employers agreed to resume work Saturday evening. As the two sides quarreled, employers cut most weekend work, saying they would not pay extra wages.

With ships and their cargo weeks behind schedule, "I suspect that people will be getting a lot of overtime in the days ahead," Perez said.

Dozens of ships laden with a you-name-it range of imported goods are using waters off the ports as parking lots. It will take weeks — and probably months — to unblock that traffic jam, as well as the gridlock of containers already on the docks.

Applauding the resolution, President Barack Obama urged "the parties to work together to clear out the backlogs," the White House said in a statement.

Chief negotiators for each side called the deal "good for workers and for the industry."

"We are also pleased that our ports can now resume full operations," union President Bob McEllrath and James McKenna, president of the Pacific Maritime Association, said in a joint written statement.

A vote by union members could come in April. The full maritime association must approve the deal.

Neither side released details, but in a recent letter to maritime association members, McKenna outlined what he called employers' "last, best and final" offer. It included maintenance of nearly no-cost health coverage, an $11,000 increase in the maximum pension benefit to $91,000, and a $1-per-hour wage increase over each of the five years.

Though dockworker wages vary by job and skill level, the average exceeds $50 per hour, according to the maritime association, which represents ocean-going shipping lines and the companies that load and unload cargo at port terminals.

Negotiators began talking formally in May. Their prior six-year contract expired July 1.

After initial signs of progress, in the fall employers publicly charged dockworkers with creating a congestion crisis to gain bargaining leverage by slowing their work rate and withholding the most skilled workers. The union responded that its members were working safely and blamed the jam on broader dysfunction at West Coast ports that predated contract talks, notably a lack of truck beds to tow containers from dockside yards to distribution warehouses.

By January, the maritime association's members stopped ordering night work crews to load and unload ships, saying that smaller groups would focus on clearing the thicket of containers already on the docks. Union members called it an attempt to hurt workers in their pocketbooks; their negotiators soon agreed to the involvement of a federal mediator.

The slowdown-vs.-lockout dynamic was the kind of brinksmanship familiar from past negotiations between two sides with a history of conflict that dates to the killing of dockworkers during the Great Depression. How much responsibility for the congestion each side bears may never be determined but their animosity magnified the crisis.

In early February, the CEO of the maritime association publicly warned that if no agreement could be reached, employers would stop calling workers and shut down the ports within days. Weekend and holiday lockouts of many longshoremen followed, though major ports were not fully closed.

Instead, cargo trickled through. Massive ocean-going ships anchored off the coast of Los Angeles and near the ports of Oakland and Seattle, waiting for berths they anticipated occupying after the long haul across the Pacific that instead were taken by ships whose unloading was itself far behind schedule. By mid-February, about 30 ships clustered outside the Los Angeles and Long Beach harbors, with similar scenes in San Francisco Bay and Washington's Puget Sound. The scenes were reminiscent of a 2002 worker lockout that shuttered West Coast ports for 10 days.

Though negotiations between the two sides typically involve public theatrics, U.S. businesses grew increasingly antsy as talks ground on. Groups representing retailers warned that some holiday goods might be delayed; thanks to advanced planning, however, trouble on the waterfront didn't steal Christmas.

Still, there were broader economic repercussions.

Farm exports suffered. McDonald's in Japan, for example, began rationing fries because of a potato shortage. Apple, nut and hay producers all said they were losing out to foreign competitors. The meat industry tallied its losses in the tens of millions of dollars.

Importers of furniture, books, clothing — even Mardi Gras beads — said their products were stuck on the docks. Honda Motor Co. cut production because of a parts shortage. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. warned that Easter goodies could be affected.

After a federal mediator couldn't broker an agreement, the Obama administration dispatched Labor Secretary Perez to oversee talks this week. He warned negotiators that if they didn't seal a deal by midnight Friday, he'd haul them back to Washington, where a parade of elected leaders had been imploring resolution.

With so much at stake, outsiders puzzled over why the talks took so long. A summer deal on health care benefits seemed to portend quick progress. But negotiations stalled on issues that included what future jobs would fall under the control of the union, which worries that automation at the ports will erode its membership.

In the end, the disagreement boiled down to the system for resolving allegations of work slowdowns, discrimination and other conflicts at the ports. The union wanted to get rid of the man who arbitrates disputes in Southern California and proposed changes that would accomplish that. The maritime association rejected those suggestions — though eventually the two sides found a compromise that Perez said would require arbitrators to reapply for their positions.

The unpredictability that preceded Friday's agreement could have long-term implications for West Coast ports and their reputation for reliability. With the widening of the Panama Canal and with ports on the East Coast and Gulf Coast investing to attract more ships, some retailers have said they will think hard before depending on ports such as Los Angeles and Long Beach for the smooth flow of cargo.

___

Contact Justin Pritchard at http://twitter.com/lalanewsman

A cargo container is moved at the Port of Tacoma, Friday, Feb. 20, 2015, in Tacoma, Wash. With a Friday deadline looming, negotiators for the two sides in the contract dispute that has snarled international trade at U.S. West Coast seaports are laboring to reach a settlement as billions of dollars of cargo are sitting massive ocean-going ships anchored outside port facilities. (AP Photo/Ted S. Warren) | Two ships sit anchored in Commencement Bay near the Port of Tacoma's grain facility, left, Friday, Feb. 20, 2015, in Tacoma, Wash. With a Friday deadline looming, negotiators for the two sides in the contract dispute that has snarled international trade at U.S. West Coast seaports are laboring to reach a settlement as billions of dollars of cargo are sitting massive ocean-going ships anchored outside port facilities. (AP Photo/Ted S. Warren) | A cargo container ship operated by Yang Ming Marine Transport Corp. sits docked at the Port of Tacoma, Friday, Feb. 20, 2015, in Tacoma, Wash. With a Friday deadline looming, negotiators for the two sides in the contract dispute that has snarled international trade at U.S. West Coast seaports are laboring to reach a settlement as billions of dollars of cargo are sitting massive ocean-going ships anchored outside port facilities. (AP Photo/Ted S. Warren) | A cargo container mover carries a container at right next to a cargo ship operated by Yang Ming Marine Transport Corp. at the Port of Tacoma, Friday, Feb. 20, 2015, in Tacoma, Wash. With a Friday deadline looming, negotiators for the two sides in the contract dispute that has snarled international trade at U.S. West Coast seaports are laboring to reach a settlement as billions of dollars of cargo are sitting massive ocean-going ships anchored outside port facilities. (AP Photo/Ted S. Warren) | The 925-foot long HS Mozart cargo ship, operated by the German shipping company Hansa Shipping, sits anchored in Commencement Bay near the Port of Tacoma, Friday, Feb. 20, 2015, in Tacoma, Wash. With a Friday deadline looming, negotiators for the two sides in the contract dispute that has snarled international trade at U.S. West Coast seaports are laboring to reach a settlement as billions of dollars of cargo are sitting massive ocean-going ships anchored outside port facilities. (AP Photo/Ted S. Warren)      

Document APRS000020150220eb2k0056h



Walmart raises salaries, fails consumers

625 words
20 February 2015
U-Wire
UWIR
English
© 2015, M2 Communications. All rights reserved.    

Oregon State University; Corvallis, OR - news

By Travis Chambers

The retail giant Walmart committed public suicide on Thursday when it announced a minor wage increase for a half-million of its employees. According to an announcement from the company, they plan to raise wages to a minimum of $10 per hour by 2016. CEO Doug McMillon even defended this insanity, saying during a quarterly earnings call, “Overall, these are strategic investments in our people to reignite the sense of ownership they have in our stores.”

First off, anyone who thinks reinvesting in the scum-sucking parasites that make up your labor force should be driven out of the company.

Preferably with torches and pitchforks.

Secondly, the only sense of ownership anyone working in retail should feel is the sense that the company owns you. Anything else is moving awfully close to the idea collective ownership, comrade.

What’s next?

Is McMillon going to stop its policy of closing stores when the workers attempt to unionize?

Folks, this is a dangerous direction for the largest private employer in the U.S.

It’s also one I don’t think they can recover from. This ridiculous plan is set to cost them an additional $1 billion in payroll expenses.

That’s nearly 0.2 percent of the $485.7 billion in revenue they reported during the 2015 fiscal year.

I don’t know how they’re going to afford it.

Analysts have suggested that the higher pay will attract more talented workers, reduce turnover and improve customer service for the company, but that is the dumbest idea I have ever heard. You don’t make money by paying your workers and giving them benefits.

You make money by slashing earnings to the bare minimum, lobbying against employee protections, and basically doing everything you can to make sure you can get away with giving employees as little as humanly possible with absolutely no consideration of conscience or morality.

I mean, let’s be real here, that’s why slavery was so awesome for everyone.

People made a ton of money by not having to do silly things like pay their workers or treat them with basic human dignity. And that money flowed down from the top and everyone benefitted from it.

Of course, now we have touchy-feely corporations that cave into protests, legal settlements and general overwhelmingly negative public opinion after only a decade or two.

What a joke.

It’s disgusting and a betrayal of the stockholders who depend on Walmart to provide for them.

And all for what?

To increase wages to the point that a married couple with no children will be just over the poverty line? Please.

Next they’ll stop discriminating against same-sex married couples.

Where does all this SJW Tumblr nonsense end?

Corporations only have one guiding ethical principle: make as much money as possible. They are not responsible for their employees, their community or anything else that doesn’t have to do with making a profit. They exist only to increase revenue on the backs of a permanent underclass of citizen who have little to no hope of escaping a lifetime of backbreaking labor and misery.

Don’t like it?

Try living without CEOs, executives, managers and other administrators. Try to run a business or a factory without a group of shareholders demanding increases in short-term profits that harm the welfare of workers.

Try working together as equals.

Just try it.

Travis Chambers is a senior in English. The opinions expressed in Chambers’s columns do not necessarily represent those of The Daily Barometer staff. Chambers can be reached at forum@dailybarometer.com.

((Distributed for UWIRE via M2 Communications www.m2.com))

Document UWIR000020150220eb2k000zd

Legally Married, but Their Boss Disagrees

Olga Khazan      
948 words
20 February 2015
Atlantic.com
ATLCOM
English
© 2015. The Atlantic Monthly Group. All rights reserved.      

Call it a little ditty about Jackie and Diana: Jacqueline Cote and Diana Smithson met on Cape Cod in 1992, fell in love, and moved to Maine together in 1998. They both got jobs at Walmart, working side by side in the bakery department. In 2003, they decided to make it official. They moved to Massachusetts and, five days after the state made it legal, they got married. They both continued to work in various positions at Walmart stores.

In 2006, Cote was promoted to a management job, where she made significantly more money and generally enjoyed the work. The following year, Smithson quit her own job in order to care for Cote's elderly mother, who had dementia.

Cote tried to add Smithson to her health-insurance plan as a spouse. When she logged into Walmart's employee-benefits site, she said it required her to select her spouse's gender.

"I would click 'female,' and it would tell me I could not proceed and I needed to call the home office [in Arkansas],” Cote told me.

When she called, the company said "that wasn't something that they were prepared to offer at this time,” Cote said.

Every year, Cote churned through the same process at open-enrollment time, and every year, she was denied. In 2012, Smithson was diagnosed with ovarian cancer, and she lost the private insurance she had been paying for separately.

When the federal Defense of Marriage Act was overturned in 2013, Cote called the home office again.

"I would like to add my spouse to my insurance,” she said.

"What is your husband's name?” she recalls the representative asking.

"My spouse is Diana Smithson.”

"You're married to a woman?"

Cote was put on hold. Her request was denied.

In 2014, Walmart changed its policy to allow same-sex spouses to join its employees' health insurance plans. But it was too late for Smithson: She had already racked up more than $100,000 in medical expenses, Cote and her lawyers say.

Fifteen states have no law requiring insurance coverage for same-sex partners, and in those states, businesses can choose not to offer same-sex spousal health coverage. Massachusetts is not one of those states, however:  According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, in the 37 states with legal gay marriage, "employees' same-sex spouses should have the same eligibility as opposite-sex spouses for dependent health coverage.” The  US Supreme Court ruled in June that states that recognize same-sex marriage must also treat gay spouses the same as straight spouses when it comes to federal benefits and taxes.

Relationship Recognition and Health Insurance Coverage

"We have so many states that now that have marriage equality, but so many employers have not updated their policies to reflect the change in the law,” Cote's lawyer, Allison Wright, told me. "They are denying benefits to employees who are in legal marriages.”

Wright says this type of discrimination contributes to poverty among LGBT couples. Gay people  are more likely to have an income below $24,000 than straight people are. They are also less likely to have  employer-sponsored insurance and more likely to be enrolled in Medicaid.

This week, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission said there was reasonable cause to believe Walmartdiscriminated against Cote and Smithson because of their sex. Walmart will now enter conciliation with the couple, which might meant that the company will pay off some of their medical debt, Wright said. If Walmart refuses to pay, Wright said her organization, the Gay & Lesbian Advocates & Defenders, may pursue the matter in federal court. The EEOC ruling says Walmart denies the policy was discriminatory because it is self-insured,  meaning its employees' premiums go Walmart, rather than a separate insurance company.

"While we disagree with the finding of reasonable cause, we have notified the EEOC of our willingness to meet with them and Ms. Cote to discuss resolving the matter,” Walmart spokesman Randy Hargrove told me. Hargrove said he is not aware of any other employees in a situation like Cote's.

To Cote and her lawyers, the dispute is about more than finances. Cote said she felt like a second-class citizen. Over the years, she would sometimes test Walmart's website by clicking "male,” rather than "female,” on her spousal benefits application. The form would sail through the system, she said.

She says she now wants an apology on top of restitution for the medical bills.

"These radiologists are responsible for [Diana] still being here,” she said. "It's difficult for her to not be able to pay them.”

As gay marriage becomes even more widespread, cases like Cote's are bound to become rarer. In 2013, the Human Rights Campaign found that 62 percent of Fortune 500 companies offer health benefits for domestic partners. Still, the other 34 percent represents a long way to go for some same-sex couples. Currently, GLAD  is pursuing a case in the U.S. District Court involving a woman named Kerry Considine, a licensed physical therapist at Brookdale Senior Living in Connecticut who was prevented from adding her legal wife to her employee health insurance plan, according to the lawsuit.

"I thought we, as a society, were moving forward,” Considine  told the AP. "To be with a company that I feel isn't is hurtful and just not what I expected."

This article was originally published at http://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2015/02/legally-married-but-not-according-to-their-boss/385673/

Mario Anzuoni/Reuters | Smithson (left) and Cote (Courtesy of Jacqueline Cote) |       Kaiser Family Foundation

Document ATLCOM0020150221eb2k0000n



 Agency claims Wal-Mart biased against lesbians For years, employee repeatedly tried to enroll partner in health plan

AMY ANTHONY          The Associated Press      
563 words
19 February 2015
Charleston Gazette
CGAZ
P2C
English
(Copyright 2015)      

BOSTON - A federal agency says Wal-Martdiscriminated against a lesbian employee who sought health coverage for her ailing wife and has ordered "a just resolution" for violating her civil rights.

The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ordered the retail giant to work with Jacqueline Cote of New Bedford, Massachusetts, who hopes the determination will help her pay off $100,000 in medical bills.

In a Jan. 29 EEOC ruling, obtained Wednesday by The Associated Press, the agency said Cote "was treated differently and denied benefits because of her sex.

Cote tried to enroll her partner in Wal-Mart's health plan repeatedly starting in 2008, but coverage was denied and the company didn't provide it until 2014. In 2012, Cote's wife, Diana Smithson, was diagnosed with cancer.

The Bentonville, Arkansas-based company said it expanded its policy in 2014 to include same-sex couples.

"While we disagree with the finding of reasonable cause, we have notified the EEOC of our willingness to meet with them and Miss Cote to discuss resolving the matter, spokesman Randy Hargrove said.

Cote, 52, and Smithson, 63, met while working at a Wal-Mart store in Augusta, Maine, in 1999. They moved to Massachusetts where they continued to work for Wal-Mart and where they married in May 2004, just days after the state legalized same-sex marriage.

Smithson quit in 2007 to take care of Cote's elderly mother. That prompted Cote to try to add Smithson to her health plan the following year.

Cote said she tried to enroll online, but the system wouldn't let her proceed when she indicated her spouse was a woman. When she sought an official explanation, she was told that same-sex spouses were not covered.

Each year thereafter, she tried and failed to enroll Smithson - including in 2012, when Smithson was diagnosed with ovarian cancer.

"I was shocked, said Cote, who was working in the company's East Falmouth, Massachusetts, store at the time. She said her colleagues in every Wal-Mart store she has worked in have been supportive of the couple.

In 2013, Cote reached out to Gay & Lesbian Advocates and Defenders, which filed a charge of discrimination with the EEOC the following year.

"If she was a woman married to a man, she would have been given spousal health benefits, said Allison Wright, an attorney with GLAD who is representing Cote.

Wright said the next step will be attempting settlement negotiations with Wal-Mart.

"We're estimating up to about $100,000 worth of medical expenses and other damages because of Wal-Mart's discriminatory denial, she said.

Cote said the couple paid out of pocket for Smithson's medical expenses in 2012, when Smithson lost her private health coverage, and up until Jan. 1, 2014, when Wal-Mart's expanded policy took effect.

The couple has "an inordinate amount of bills, said Cote, who now works in Wal-Mart's Swansea, Massachusetts, store as an office associate. Smithson was in remission for 18 months but resumed chemotherapy treatments last month.

"I'm not only doing this for me, Cote said. "I'm doing this for other gay and lesbian couples that have been discriminated against as well.

Document CGAZ000020150219eb2j00017

Wal-Mart to Pay $150,000 to Settle EEOC Age and Disability    Discrimination  Suit

524 words
19 February 2015
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Documents
EEOD
English
Copyright © 2015 Federal Information & News Dispatch, Inc.      

2-19-15

Wal-Mart to Pay $150,000 to Settle EEOC Age and Disability Discrimination Suit

Keller Store Manager Was Harassed and Fired Because of His Age and Denied Accommodation for His Diabetes, Federal Agency Charged

DALLAS - Wal-Mart Stores of Texas, L.L.C. (Wal-Mart) has agreed to pay $150,000 and provide other significant relief to settle an age and disability discrimination lawsuit brought by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the agency announced today. The EEOC charged in its suit that Wal-Martdiscriminated against the manager of the Keller, Texas Walmart store by subjecting him to harassment, discriminatory treatment, and discharge because of his age. The EEOC also charged that Wal-Mart refused to provide a reasonable accommodation for the man's disability as federal law requires.

According to the EEOC's suit, David Moorman was ridiculed with frequent taunts from his direct supervisor, including "old man" and "old food guy." The EEOC further alleged that Wal-Mart ultimately fired Moorman because of his age. Such alleged conduct violates the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of age 40 or older, including age-based harassment.

The EEOC's suit also alleged that Wal-Mart unlawfully refused Moorman's request for a reasonable accommodation for his diabetes. Following his diagnosis and on the advice of his doctor, Moorman requested reassignment to a store co-manager or assistant manager position. According to the suit, Wal-Mart refused to engage in the interactive process of discussing Moorman's requested accommodation, eventually rejecting his request. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), Wal-Mart had an obligation to reasonably accommodate Moorman's disability.

The EEOC filed suit on March 12, 2014, (Case No. 3:14-cv-00908 in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Dallas Division) after first attempting to reach a pre-litigation settlement through its conciliation process.

"Mr. Moorman was subjected to taunts and bullying from his supervisor that made his working conditions intolerable," said EEOC Senior Trial Attorney Joel Clark. "The EEOC remains committed to prosecuting the rights of workers through litigation in federal court."

Under the terms of the two-year consent decree settling the case, Wal-Mart will pay $150,000 in relief to Moorman. In addition, Wal-Mart agreed to provide training for employees on the ADA and the ADEA. The training will include an instruction on the kind of conduct that may constitute unlawful discrimination or harassment, as well as an instruction on Wal-Mart's procedures for handling requests for reasonable accommodations under the ADA. Wal-Mart will also report to the EEOC regarding its compliance with the consent decree and post a notice to employees about the settlement.

"The EEOC is pleased that Wal-Mart recognized the value of resolving this case without any further court action," said EEOC Dallas District Director Janet Elizondo.

The EEOC enforces federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination. Further information about the EEOC is available on its web site at www.eeoc.gov.

Document EEOD000020150219eb2j00002



Wal-Mart ordered to aid New Bedford woman denied benefits for ailing wife

Staff      
177 words
19 February 2015
Boston Business Journal Online
BOSBJO
English
© 2015 American City Business Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.      

A federal agency says Wal-Martdiscriminated against a New Bedford, Massachusetts woman who sought health coverage for her ailing wife, and has ordered "a just resolution" for violating her civil rights.

The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ordered the retail giant to work with Jacqueline Cote, who hopes the determination will help her pay off $100,000 in medical bills.

In a Jan. 29 EEOC ruling, obtained Wednesday and reported by The Associated Press, the agency said Cote "was treated differently and denied benefits because of her sex."

Cote tried to enroll her partner in Wal-Mart's health plan repeatedly starting in 2008, but coverage was denied and the company didn't provide it until 2014. In 2012, Cote's wife, Diana Smithson, was diagnosed with cancer.

 Read more by the AP.

Did you find this article useful? Why not subscribe to Boston Business Journal for more articles and leads? Visit bizjournals.com/subscribe or call 1-866-853-3661.

Document BOSBJO0020150219eb2j0002u



Feds say Wal-Mart was biased against lesbians who sought health coverage

BY AMY ANTHONY      
AP      
557 words
18 February 2015
06:07 PM
The Canadian Press
CPR
English
(c) 2015 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved.      

BOSTON _ A federal agency says Wal-Martdiscriminated against a lesbian employee who sought health coverage for her ailing wife and has ordered "a just resolution'' for violating her civil rights.

The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ordered the retail giant to work with Jacqueline Cote of New Bedford, Massachusetts, who hopes the determination will help her pay off $100,000 in medical bills.

In a Jan. 29 EEOC ruling, obtained Wednesday by The Associated Press, the agency said Cote "was treated differently and denied benefits because of her sex.''

Cote tried to enrol her partner in Wal-Mart's health plan repeatedly starting in 2008, but coverage was denied and the company didn't provide it until 2014. In 2012, Cote's wife, Diana Smithson, was diagnosed with cancer.

The Bentonville, Arkansas-based company said it expanded its policy in 2014 to include same-sex couples.

"While we disagree with the finding of reasonable cause, we have notified the EEOC of our willingness to meet with them and Miss Cote to discuss resolving the matter,'' spokesman Randy Hargrove said.

Cote, 52, and Smithson, 63, met while working at a Wal-Mart store in Augusta, Maine, in 1999. They moved to Massachusetts where they continued to work for Wal-Mart and where they married in May 2004, just days after the state legalized same-sex marriage.

Smithson quit in 2007 to take care of Cote's elderly mother. That prompted Cote to try to add Smithson to her health plan the following year.

Cote said she tried to enrol online, but the system wouldn't let her proceed when she indicated her spouse was a woman. When she sought an official explanation, she was told that same-sex spouses were not covered.

Each year thereafter, she tried and failed to enrol Smithson _ including in 2012, when Smithson was diagnosed with ovarian cancer.

"I was shocked,'' said Cote, who was working in the company's East Falmouth, Massachusetts, store at the time. She said her colleagues in every Wal-Mart store she has worked in have been supportive of the couple.

In 2013, Cote reached out to Gay & Lesbian Advocates and Defenders, which filed a charge of discrimination with the EEOC the following year.

"If she was a woman married to a man, she would have been given spousal health benefits,'' said Allison Wright, an attorney with GLAD who is representing Cote.

Wright said the next step will be attempting settlement negotiations with Wal-Mart.

"We're estimating up to about $100,000 worth of medical expenses and other damages because of Wal-Mart's discriminatory denial,'' she said.

Cote said the couple paid out of pocket for Smithson's medical expenses in 2012, when Smithson lost her private health coverage, and up until Jan. 1, 2014, when Wal-Mart's expanded policy took effect.

The couple has "an inordinate amount of bills,'' said Cote, who now works in Wal-Mart's Swansea, Massachusetts, store as an office associate. Smithson was in remission for 18 months but resumed chemotherapy treatments last month.

"I'm not only doing this for me,'' Cote said. "I'm doing this for other gay and lesbian couples that have been discriminated against as well.''

20150218CPCPB7045      

Document CPR0000020150219eb2j0009n



APNewsBreak: Feds say Wal-Mart was biased against lesbians

By AMY ANTHONY      
Associated Press      
556 words
18 February 2015
06:06 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2015.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

BOSTON (AP) — A federal agency says Wal-Martdiscriminated against a lesbian employee who sought health coverage for her ailing wife and has ordered "a just resolution" for violating her civil rights.

The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ordered the retail giant to work with Jacqueline Cote of New Bedford, Massachusetts, who hopes the determination will help her pay off $100,000 in medical bills.

In a Jan. 29 EEOC ruling, obtained Wednesday by The Associated Press, the agency said Cote "was treated differently and denied benefits because of her sex."

Cote tried to enroll her partner in Wal-Mart's health plan repeatedly starting in 2008, but coverage was denied and the company didn't provide it until 2014. In 2012, Cote's wife, Diana Smithson, was diagnosed with cancer.

The Bentonville, Arkansas-based company said it expanded its policy in 2014 to include same-sex couples.

"While we disagree with the finding of reasonable cause, we have notified the EEOC of our willingness to meet with them and Miss Cote to discuss resolving the matter," spokesman Randy Hargrove said.

Cote, 52, and Smithson, 63, met while working at a Wal-Mart store in Augusta, Maine, in 1999. They moved to Massachusetts where they continued to work for Wal-Mart and where they married in May 2004, just days after the state legalized same-sex marriage.

Smithson quit in 2007 to take care of Cote's elderly mother. That prompted Cote to try to add Smithson to her health plan the following year.

Cote said she tried to enroll online, but the system wouldn't let her proceed when she indicated her spouse was a woman. When she sought an official explanation, she was told that same-sex spouses were not covered.

Each year thereafter, she tried and failed to enroll Smithson — including in 2012, when Smithson was diagnosed with ovarian cancer.

"I was shocked," said Cote, who was working in the company's East Falmouth, Massachusetts, store at the time. She said her colleagues in every Wal-Mart store she has worked in have been supportive of the couple.

In 2013, Cote reached out to Gay & Lesbian Advocates and Defenders, which filed a charge of discrimination with the EEOC the following year.

"If she was a woman married to a man, she would have been given spousal health benefits," said Allison Wright, an attorney with GLAD who is representing Cote.

Wright said the next step will be attempting settlement negotiations with Wal-Mart.

"We're estimating up to about $100,000 worth of medical expenses and other damages because of Wal-Mart's discriminatory denial," she said.

Cote said the couple paid out of pocket for Smithson's medical expenses in 2012, when Smithson lost her private health coverage, and up until Jan. 1, 2014, when Wal-Mart's expanded policy took effect.

The couple has "an inordinate amount of bills," said Cote, who now works in Wal-Mart's Swansea, Massachusetts, store as an office associate. Smithson was in remission for 18 months but resumed chemotherapy treatments last month.

"I'm not only doing this for me," Cote said. "I'm doing this for other gay and lesbian couples that have been discriminated against as well."

Document APRS000020150218eb2i00a49



News
Shopper caught on camera headbutting worker at Walmart 'knocking her two front teeth loose' is arrested

JAMES GORDON and CLAIRE CARTER FOR MAILONLINE      
743 words
18 February 2015
01:39 AM
Mail Online
DAMONL
English
© 2015 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved      

* Investigators say Jessica Albitz was arguing with employee Alice Keener and things escalated

* Keener slammed Albitz's head on table five times and dragged her to floor

* The two women had to be pulled apart after the brawl

* Keener decided to press charges after visiting a dentist about injuries to her teeth.

A Walmart worker who was headbutted by a customer has decided to press charges against the woman who assaulted her.

Alice Keener was staffing a stand within the Texas superstore in La Porte, when a shopper Jessica Albitz ended up getting into an arugment with her.

The two women descended into a violent brawl of hair pulling and punching after the headbut.

Now Ms Keener has decided to press charges after visiting a dentist about injuries to her teeth.

Scroll down for video...

Police said Ms. Keener originally declined to press charges, but an evaluation by a dentist determined that the headbutt knocked two of her front teeth loose.

Ms. Keener contacted Deer Park police last week to alert them she would like to press charges. Keener was able to provide medical records to police that proved her claims.

Police said they plan to file a warrant for Albitz's arrest in the coming days.

Ms Albitz claims Ms Keener, who works at a Jackson Hewitt stall within the store was rude to her and her husband the day before the fight broke out, when the couple came into the store to get their taxes prepared.

The next day, the two women got into another argument when Albitz returned to the store and that's when things turned violent.

Video footage of the brawl shows Keener react by slamming Albitz's head onto a table five times before dragging her to the floor by her hair as the two women continued to attack each other and shout.

They eventually had to be pulled apart by a male customer.

Keener, who is larger than the slight Albitz, was later seen picking up pulled out strands of her hair from the floor.

After they were separated she can be heard to shout on the video: 'You better get her.

'She come in messing with me. I'm at work.'

Albitz later told Click 2 Houston that she doesn't regret the fight.

'I hope I broke her nose. I hope she has two black eyes and I hope she remembers me for the rest of her life,' she said.

Albitz said her and her husband had encountered Keener the evening before at a Jackson Hewitt kiosk and she was very rude to them both, allegedly 'talking trash' to Albitz's husband.

She told NBC: 'She came in in a bad mood and took it out on us.'

When she returned the next day the pair started to argue when Albitz said she heard Kenner whisper an insult under her breath, as she passed the kiosk.

Albitz says she confronted Kenner, who then chased her to the front of the Walmart, got 'right up in my face' and spat at her.

'She spit in my face, calling my mother a (expletive). I'm sorry. I love my family and I'm going to take up for my people,' Albitz said.

She said she was left with a large bruise on her arm and marks on her forehead after the violent fight.

Neither of the women were charged with a crime after the violent brawl but Kenner has been put on 'administrative leave.'

After the incident Jackson Hewitt issued a statement which said: 'We do not tolerate harassment, discrimination or violence in any capacity.

'The tax preparer has been placed on administrative leave as we investigate this matter.'

She is also at risk of losing the full-time job she has held with the city of La Porte for the past 15 years. Her employer said he was shocked by the video, and that they are now investigating whether she violated the city's code of conduct.

Meanwhile, Albitz has been banned from entering the Walmart where the fight happened ever again.

'I was willing to take the charges,' Albitz said. 'If I were to have charges taken, I would've accepted that. For the remainder of my life, I am no longer allowed to go to Walmart on Spencer Highway.'

Document DAMONL0020150218eb2i001e1

In-House Counsel
Making Sense of Class Actions After 'Braun' and 'Dukes'

BY KIM M. WATTERSON AND RICHARD HEPPNER JR. Special to the Legal      
1,599 words
11 February 2015
The Legal Intelligencer
LINTEL
5
Volume 251; Issue 27
English
Copyright 2015 LexisNexis, a Division of Reed Elsevier, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

The Pennsylvania Supreme Court recently affirmed a $187 million jury award to a class of Pennsylvania Wal- Mart employees in Braun v. Wal-Mart Stores, No. 32 EAP 2012, __ A.3d ___ (Pa. 2014). Commenters have suggested Braun conflicts with the U.S. Supreme Court's holding in Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes, 131 S.Ct. 2541 (2011), that a class may be certified only when the individual class members' claims are susceptible to common proof without reliance on statistical evidence.

Although federal and Pennsylvania law impose similar requirements for proceeding as a class, including the commonality requirement, Dukes and Braun seem to diverge in their approaches to commonality. But do their holdings actually conflict? While the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and related case law do not control state-court proceedings, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court examined Dukes and apparently found it compatible with the holding in Braun.

To understand whether Dukes and Braun diverge (and, if so, why), it is important not to read either case too broadly, carefully distinguishing their holdings and rationales. First, on close examination, Dukes does not necessarily bar—and Braun does not necessarily permit—statistical evidence in every case. Instead, both decisions turned on the link (or lack thereof) between the specific claims and evidence at issue. Second, the Dukes and Braun plaintiffs relied on statistical evidence to prove different elements—liability in Dukes and damages in Braun. Third, the questions on appeal—and arguably the appellate analysis itself—differed because the appeals arose from different kinds of orders: Dukes from an interlocutory class-certification order; Braun from a final judgment.

A look at these differences may provide guidance for parties facing class actions in Pennsylvania state court and show that Braun does not entirely foreclose defendants from pressing the Dukes rationale.

INDIVIDUAL DISCRIMINATORY ACTS VS. COMPANY POLICIES

The differences between the liability theories underlying the class claims in Dukes and Braun might account for the courts' different views on the use of statistical evidence. In Dukes, the U.S. Supreme Court held that a nationwide class of 1.6 million Wal-Mart employees alleging gender discrimination could not be certified because the class claims were not based on common questions of law or fact. The court rejected the plaintiffs' argument that commonality existed because Wal- Mart's allegedly biased "corporate culture" made every class member a "victim of one common discriminatory practice." The court reasoned that the plaintiffs' proffered statistical analysis was "worlds away from 'significant proof' that Wal-Mart operated under a general policy of discrimination," especially given Wal-Mart's anti-discrimination policies and policy allowing individual managers to make individual pay and promotion decisions, "just the opposite of a uniform employment practice that would provide the commonality needed for a class action."

In Braun, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court affirmed a $187 million jury award to a class of 187,979 Wal-Mart workers who claimed Wal-Mart denied them promised paid rest breaks in violation of their contracts and state wage laws. Wal-Mart argued that, after Dukes, the plaintiffs could not use statistical evidence to prove Wal-Mart caused the class members to miss their promised breaks. But Braun distinguished between the Dukes allegations—based on a nebulous corporate culture that allegedly caused individual store managers to discriminate on the basis of gender—and the Braun allegations, based on Wal-Mart policies that allegedly pressured store managers to take actions that denied employees their breaks. Pointing to this distinction, Braun held the plaintiffs had produced classwide liability evidence in the form of Wal-Mart break and scheduling policies, and internal audits showing the average number of missed breaks for Wal-Mart employees nationwide over part of the class period. Braun treated this as direct, not statistical, evidence and held it was "sufficient to support the fact-finder's determination that there was an extensive pattern of discrepancies between" breaks earned and breaks taken. Thus, Braun did not authorize the use of statistical evidence in all circumstances, but instead found that the plaintiffs offered direct evidence of a classwide discrepancy. And, given that evidence, Braun concluded that the classwide liability finding could stand because both parties "had ample opportunity to ... show that the discrepancies were or were not evidence of classwide wage-andhour violations."

LIABILITY VS. DAMAGES

Braun explained that the plaintiffs' statistical evidence was relevant primarily to damages, not to liability (as it was in Dukes). That difference figured into Braun's holding that Wal-Mart had not been subjected to "trial by formula," in contravention of Dukes.

Wal-Mart argued in Braun that the plaintiffs impermissibly proved classwide liability—that Wal-Mart had systematically denied breaks to the entire class over the entire class period—based on evidence showing, at most, that some plaintiffs had missed breaks during part of the class period. Current Chief Justice Thomas G. Saylor, who dissented, agreed, explaining that the plaintiffs presented only individual testimony from a few employees and incomplete records, and then relied on "gross generalizations and assumptions which permitted the simple averaging and extrapolations offered up by [the plaintiffs'] expert witnesses" to support the conclusion that any discrepancy between breaks earned and breaks taken "reflected rest breaks forgone on account of payroll pressure exerted from the Wal-Mart boardroom." But the Braun majority disagreed, holding that the plaintiffs' proof was not "trial by formula" because the "extrapolation evidence" was used to determine "the amount of damages" for the class, not liability, which was permissible under Comcast v. Behrend, 133 S.Ct. 1426 (2013).

APPEAL FROM FINAL JUDGMENT VS. CLASS CERTIFICATION ORDER

Dukes involved an appeal from a class certification order, while Braun involved an appeal from a final judgment. Given this difference, the questions on appeal were slightly different: Dukes asked whether the class claim was susceptible to common proof at trial, while Braun asked whether the plaintiffs actually produced common proof at trial.

Theoretically, that distinction should not make a significant difference—if anything, the former seems easier to show than the latter. But, in practice, the different procedural postures might have led to the divergence in results because it often is more difficult to convince an appellate court to overturn a judgment after a jury trial than to overturn a judge's interlocutory ruling. Thus, it would make sense—and surely be more economical—to push for an immediate appeal from a class certification order. But, in practice, class actions in Pennsylvania courts usually get to the appellate court only after final judgment, as in Braun. In federal court, a party may petition the appellate court for an immediate appeal from a class certification order, without seeking the trial court's permission. By contrast, in Pennsylvania, class certification orders are treated like any other interlocutory order, and parties must first seek leave from the trial court before petitioning the appellate court. Leave to appeal is rarely granted because they are "the type of interlocutory order which is not usually appealable," as in Pincus v. Mutual Assurance, 321 A.2d 906, 908 (Pa. 1974).

LOOKING FORWARD

While Braun will not necessarily open the floodgates, it probably will encourage plaintiffs to file more class actions in Pennsylvania court, and it poses new questions and considerations for defendants.

First, removal (when federal subject-matter jurisdiction exists) always is an option if it appears the defendant will fare better under Dukes. Whether that is so depends on the claims and the statistical evidence likely to be presented. Are the claims susceptible to or dependent on proof by statistical means? For liability or only for damages? What such evidence is available?

Second, if the case proceeds in state court, the same questions are relevant when deciding whether to rely on Dukes to oppose class certification. At least for some kinds of claims, Braun leaves room to argue that the Dukes rationale applies at the certification stage because the claims are not susceptible to statistical proof.

Third, if a class is certified, it is worth considering seeking an immediate appeal, even though the odds of getting appellate review might be slim. Trial courts sometimes can be persuaded to certify class certification orders for appeal, and appellate courts sometimes will accept the appeal even if the trial court has not certified its order, as in Foustv. Southeastern Pennsylvania TransportationAuthority, 756 A.2d 112 (Pa. Commw. Ct. 2000).

Fourth, if the case proceeds to trial, defendants should consider moving to limit any statistical evidence to the damages phase. Given Braun's approval of the use of statistical evidence to determine damages—but Dukes' admonition against using it to prove classwide liability—it might be possible to convince a trial court that bifurcation is necessary to prevent statistical evidence from influencing a jury's view on liability questions.

In sum, Braun is not a wholesale endorsement of the use of statistical evidence to prove class claims. Defendants should scrutinize the nature of the claims and the statistical evidence proffered at every stage of the proceeding, examining whether the circumstances at hand are more like Braun or Dukes.

KIM M. WATTERSON is a partner, and RICHARD HEPPNER JR. is an associate, in theappellate practice group at Reed Smith's Pittsburghoffice. They work with firm litigation counsel onclass action cases at the class certification and trialstages, and they handle appeals from class certificationorders or final judgments, in state and federalcourts in Pennsylvania and elsewhere. Contactthem at kwatterson@reedsmith.com and rheppner@reedsmith.com.      

Document LINTEL0020150211eb2b00031



News
Watch what's in store! Astonishing moment fight breaks out at Walmart after customer HEADBUTTS worker who 'insulted her husband'

CLAIRE CARTER FOR MAILONLINE      
666 words
11 February 2015
10:09 AM
Mail Online
DAMONL
English
© 2015 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved      

* Jessica Albitz and tax worker Alice Keener began to argue in Walmart

* Albitz claimed Keener shouted insults at her and then spat in her face

* Albitz retaliated by head-butting Keener who then grabbed her violently

* Keener slammed Albitz's head on table five times and dragged her to floor

* The two women had to be pulled apart after the brawl, captured on video

* Albitz said she doesn't regret the fight: 'I hope I broke her nose. I hope she has two black eyes and I hope she remembers me for the rest of her life.'

An argument between two women descended into a violent brawl of hair pulling and punching after a customer headbutted a tax worker in Walmart.

Jessica Albitz claims Alice Keener, who works at a Jackson Hewitt stall within the store in La Porte, Texas, was rude to her and her husband the day before the fight broke out, when the couple came into the store to get their taxes prepared.

The next day, the two women got into another argument when Albitz returned to the store and that's when things turned violent.

Video footage of the brawl shows Keener react by slamming Albitz's head onto a table five times before dragging her to the floor by her hair as the two women continued to attack each other and shout.

Scroll down for video

They eventually had to be pulled apart by a male customer.

Keener, who is larger than the slight Albitz, was later seen picking up pulled out strands of her hair from the floor.

After they were separated she can be heard to shout on the video: 'You better get her.

'She come in messing with me. I'm at work.'

Albitz later told Click 2 Houston that she doesn't regret the fight.

'I hope I broke her nose. I hope she has two black eyes and I hope she remembers me for the rest of her life,' she said.

Albitz said her and her husband had encountered Keener the evening before at a Jackson Hewitt kiosk and she was very rude to them both, allegedly 'talking trash' to Albitz's husband.

She told NBC: 'She came in in a bad mood and took it out on us.'

When she returned the next day the pair started to argue when Albitz said she heard Kenner whisper an insult under her breath, as she passed the kiosk.

Albitz says she confronted Kenner, who then chased her to the front of the Walmart, got 'right up in my face' and spat at her.

'She spit in my face, calling my mother a (expletive). I'm sorry. I love my family and I'm going to take up for my people,' Albitz said.

She said she was left with a large bruise on her arm and marks on her forehead after the violent fight.

Neither of the women were charged with a crime after the violent brawl but Kenner has been put on 'administrative leave.'

After the incident Jackson Hewitt issued a statement which said: 'We do not tolerate harassment, discrimination or violence in any capacity.

'The tax preparer has been placed on administrative leave as we investigate this matter.'

She is also at risk of losing the full-time job she has held with the city of La Porte for the past 15 years. Her employer said he was shocked by the video, and that they are now investigating whether she violated the city's code of conduct.

Meanwhile, Albitz has been banned from entering the Walmart where the fight happened ever again.

'I was willing to take the charges,' Albitz said. 'If I were to have charges taken, I would've accepted that. For the remainder of my life, I am no longer allowed to go to Walmart on Spencer Highway.'

Document DAMONL0020150211eb2b005en



New York Church Taking Walmart To Court Over Gun Sales

Clare O'Connor, Forbes Staff      
1,306 words
9 February 2015
Forbes.com
FBCOM
English
© 2015 Forbes LLC      

Trinity Church sits in the shadow of lower Manhattan’s One World Trade Center, its brownstone Gothic Revival spire dwarfed by the Financial District’s surrounding skyscrapers.

On 9/11, Trinity provided refuge from the plume of debris when the towers fell just three blocks north. The church survived without much damage. Today, it’s a landmark and site of remembrance as much as a place of worship.

It’s also extravagantly wealthy, as far as Episcopalian churches go, thanks to the 215 acres England’s Queen Anne donated to the diocese in 1705, when the area was farmland. Trinity has sold most of that land over the years but remains one of Manhattan’s largest landowners. It estimates the value of its assets at over $2 billion.

One of the smaller investments in Trinity’s diverse portfolio: about $300,000 worth of shares in Walmart. This spring, the church will face off against the big-box giant in a court case that could change the way public companies make business decisions.

At issue, for Trinity: Walmart’s sale of guns with high-capacity magazines of the sort used in mass killings.

The church’s rector, Rev. Dr. James Cooper, says he isn’t seeking a ban on the sale of assault weapons at Walmart. Rather, he’s fighting to force the world’s largest retailer to include a shareholder proposal in this April’s proxy materials, to be voted on at this summer’s annual meeting.

Trinity’s proposal would require Walmart’s board to oversee the sale of “products that especially endanger public safety and well-being, risk impairing the company’s reputation, or offend the family and community values integral to the company’s brand,” as the document first filed with the Security and Exchange Commission last year reads.

“Somebody is making decisions about what they sell,” Rev. Cooper told Forbes in an interview at the church’s well-appointed Wall Street offices, with views over the Hudson River.

“Trinity doesn’t need to. We would just like them to tell us they have a system in place at the board level to protect the reputation of the company, its values, and protect the citizens who live in that community from extreme harm.”

The church has singled out high-capacity assault rifles as the sort of product that should require board approval before hitting store shelves, questioning in its proposal “whether these guns are well suited to hunting or shooting sports” and recalling that such weapons “enabled many mass killings” in Newtown, Aurora, Tucson and elsewhere.

It was the 2012 massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. that proved the catalyst for Trinity’s legal action, says Rev. Cooper. He recalls having coffee hour chats with parishioners about ways to help, including shareholder activism.

Months after the killings, Cooper and Trinity’s legal counsel Evan Davis took their concerns to Walmart head of investor relations Carol Schumacher. (Schumacher declined to be interviewed for this story.)

Davis was keen to learn how the retailer decides, for instance, that it won’t sell CDs with Parental Advisory warning labels, but will sell assault rifles with the capacity for 30 rounds of ammunition.

“If it were a video with somebody shooting up a school, or a rap song with somebody talking about shooting up a school, they wouldn’t sell it,” he said. “So why sell the gun? It doesn’t make sense.”

During their discussions, Walmart assured Trinity it takes gun safety seriously, echoing those sentiments in a statement to Forbes.

“In areas of the country where we sell firearms, we have a long standing commitment to do so safely and responsibly through trained associates and in compliance with our standards, which greatly exceed what is required by law,” said spokesperson Randy Hargrove.

“For example, we do not sell handguns in the contiguous U.S., and we do not sell high capacity magazines as an accessory or any firearms at Walmart.com. We also conduct background checks, videotape sales of firearms at our stores and exceed the current legal requirements by requiring a ‘proceed’ response on a background check before we transfer a firearm.”

Unable to get a satisfactory response from Walmart on board oversight, Trinity decided to submit a shareholder proposal in December 2013 for inclusion in the company’s 2014 proxy materials.

The retail giant issued a preemptive strike, arguing to the Securities and Exchange Commission that Trinity’s proposal would interfere with the company’s day-to-day operations. The SEC sided with Walmart, issuing a no-action letter permitting the retailer to exclude the church’s submission from its 2014 annual filings.

Davis and Cooper next took their case to Delaware’s federal courts. In November, following months of back-and-forth briefs from both sides, U.S. District Judge Leonard Stark decided in Trinity’s favor, ordering Walmart to let shareholders vote on the church’s proposal. In January, Walmart appealed.

The big-box chain will now face Trinity in Philadelphia’s Third Circuit Court of Appeals in late February or early March. Bentonville, Ark.-based Walmart has hired Los Angeles lawyer Theodore Boutrous, who represented the company in decade-long class action gender discrimination case Dukes vs Walmart. The Supreme Court threw the case out in 2011.

Walmart has support in the form of amicus briefs from, among others, the National Association of Manufacturers, the American Petroleum Institute, the Business Roundtable, the Society of Corporate Secretaries and Governance Professionals and the Retail Litigation Center.

“We believe that the SEC staff was correct in finding that Walmart was allowed to exclude Trinity’s shareholder proposal from its 2014 annual meeting proxy materials,” said Walmart in a statement to Forbes.

“The District Court’s ruling has far reaching implications for the entire retail industry, because it could force public companies to have a shareholder vote to make decisions on ordinary business matters, such as what products a retailer sells. The ruling reverses 40-year old SEC guidance allowing shareholder proposals to be excluded if they involved a company’s ordinary business operations.”

“Trinity’s proposal would interfere with Walmart’s ordinary business operations by seeking to regulate Walmart’s daily decisions on the hundreds of thousands of products sold in our stores, wholesale warehouse clubs, and online. Trinity’s proposal would also be difficult to implement because it is vague and indefinite, refers to highly subjective and loosely defined categories of products and is unclear on which of the hundreds of thousands of different products sold in our stores, wholesale warehouse clubs, and online would be covered.”

In the next few days, Cornell University Law School professor of corporate and business law Lynn Stout will file an amicus brief in support of Trinity Church on behalf of more than 20 of her fellow corporate law professors from various universities, all experts in corporate governance.

“Trinity isn’t asking for an expansion of shareholder rights,” said Stout, author of The Shareholder Value Myth. “Walmart is asking for a restriction. It would be a dramatic new restriction in shareholder rights if the Third Circuit were to reverse the district court’s decision.”

Rev. Cooper is set to retire as Trinity’s rector on February 15. He’s already briefed his successor, Rev. Dr. William Lupfer of Portland, Oregon’s Trinity Episcopal Cathedral, on the case. Legal counsel Evan Davis — also a church warden — plans to stick with it, even if the appeals process proves arduous.

“Trinity has been here for 318 years,” Cooper said. “We have some things that we can keep doing for a pretty long period of time and this will be one of them.”

Trinity Church rector Rev. James Cooper. Photo: Leo Sorel.      

Document FBCOM00020150209eb29000gs



New York Church Taking Walmart To Court Over Gun Sales

Clare O'Connor, Forbes Staff      
1,306 words
9 February 2015
Forbes.com
FBCOM
English
© 2015 Forbes LLC      

Trinity Church sits in the shadow of lower Manhattan’s One World Trade Center, its brownstone Gothic Revival spire dwarfed by the Financial District’s surrounding skyscrapers.

On 9/11, Trinity provided refuge from the plume of debris when the towers fell just three blocks north. The church survived without much damage. Today, it’s a landmark and site of remembrance as much as a place of worship.

It’s also extravagantly wealthy, as far as Episcopalian churches go, thanks to the 215 acres England’s Queen Anne donated to the diocese in 1705, when the area was farmland. Trinity has sold most of that land over the years but remains one of Manhattan’s largest landowners. It estimates the value of its assets at over $2 billion.

One of the smaller investments in Trinity’s diverse portfolio: about $2,000 worth of shares in Walmart. This spring, the church will face off against the big-box giant in a court case that could change the way public companies make business decisions.

At issue, for Trinity: Walmart’s sale of guns with high-capacity magazines of the sort used in mass killings.

The church’s rector, Rev. Dr. James Cooper, says he isn’t seeking a ban on the sale of assault weapons at Walmart. Rather, he’s fighting to force the world’s largest retailer to include a shareholder proposal in this April’s proxy materials, to be voted on at this summer’s annual meeting.

Trinity’s proposal would require Walmart’s board to oversee the sale of “products that especially endanger public safety and well-being, risk impairing the company’s reputation, or offend the family and community values integral to the company’s brand,” as the document first filed with the Security and Exchange Commission last year reads.

“Somebody is making decisions about what they sell,” Rev. Cooper told Forbes in an interview at the church’s well-appointed Wall Street offices, with views over the Hudson River.

“Trinity doesn’t need to. We would just like them to tell us they have a system in place at the board level to protect the reputation of the company, its values, and protect the citizens who live in that community from extreme harm.”

The church has singled out high-capacity assault rifles as the sort of product that should require board approval before hitting store shelves, questioning in its proposal “whether these guns are well suited to hunting or shooting sports” and recalling that such weapons “enabled many mass killings” in Newtown, Aurora, Tucson and elsewhere.

It was the 2012 massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. that proved the catalyst for Trinity’s legal action, says Rev. Cooper. He recalls having coffee hour chats with parishioners about ways to help, including shareholder activism.

Months after the killings, Cooper and Trinity’s legal counsel Evan Davis took their concerns to Walmart head of investor relations Carol Schumacher. (Schumacher declined to be interviewed for this story.)

Davis was keen to learn how the retailer decides, for instance, that it won’t sell CDs with Parental Advisory warning labels, but will sell assault rifles with the capacity for 30 rounds of ammunition.

“If it were a video with somebody shooting up a school, or a rap song with somebody talking about shooting up a school, they wouldn’t sell it,” he said. “So why sell the gun? It doesn’t make sense.”

During their discussions, Walmart assured Trinity it takes gun safety seriously, echoing those sentiments in a statement to Forbes.

“In areas of the country where we sell firearms, we have a long standing commitment to do so safely and responsibly through trained associates and in compliance with our standards, which greatly exceed what is required by law,” said spokesperson Randy Hargrove.

“For example, we do not sell handguns in the contiguous U.S., and we do not sell high capacity magazines as an accessory or any firearms at Walmart.com. We also conduct background checks, videotape sales of firearms at our stores and exceed the current legal requirements by requiring a ‘proceed’ response on a background check before we transfer a firearm.”

Unable to get a satisfactory response from Walmart on board oversight, Trinity decided to submit a shareholder proposal in December 2013 for inclusion in the company’s 2014 proxy materials.

The retail giant issued a preemptive strike, arguing to the Securities and Exchange Commission that Trinity’s proposal would interfere with the company’s day-to-day operations. The SEC sided with Walmart, issuing a no-action letter permitting the retailer to exclude the church’s submission from its 2014 annual filings.

Davis and Cooper next took their case to Delaware’s federal courts. In November, following months of back-and-forth briefs from both sides, U.S. District Judge Leonard Stark decided in Trinity’s favor, ordering Walmart to let shareholders vote on the church’s proposal. In January, Walmart appealed.

The big-box chain will now face Trinity in Philadelphia’s Third Circuit Court of Appeals in late February or early March. Bentonville, Ark.-based Walmart has hired Los Angeles lawyer Theodore Boutrous, who represented the company in decade-long class action gender discrimination case Dukes vs Walmart. The Supreme Court threw the case out in 2011.

Walmart has support in the form of amicus briefs from, among others, the National Association of Manufacturers, the American Petroleum Institute, the Business Roundtable, the Society of Corporate Secretaries and Governance Professionals and the Retail Litigation Center.

“We believe that the SEC staff was correct in finding that Walmart was allowed to exclude Trinity’s shareholder proposal from its 2014 annual meeting proxy materials,” said Walmart in a statement to Forbes.

“The District Court’s ruling has far reaching implications for the entire retail industry, because it could force public companies to have a shareholder vote to make decisions on ordinary business matters, such as what products a retailer sells. The ruling reverses 40-year old SEC guidance allowing shareholder proposals to be excluded if they involved a company’s ordinary business operations.”

“Trinity’s proposal would interfere with Walmart’s ordinary business operations by seeking to regulate Walmart’s daily decisions on the hundreds of thousands of products sold in our stores, wholesale warehouse clubs, and online. Trinity’s proposal would also be difficult to implement because it is vague and indefinite, refers to highly subjective and loosely defined categories of products and is unclear on which of the hundreds of thousands of different products sold in our stores, wholesale warehouse clubs, and online would be covered.”

In the next few days, Cornell University Law School professor of corporate and business law Lynn Stout will file an amicus brief in support of Trinity Church on behalf of more than 20 of her fellow corporate law professors from various universities, all experts in corporate governance.

“Trinity isn’t asking for an expansion of shareholder rights,” said Stout, author of The Shareholder Value Myth. “Walmart is asking for a restriction. It would be a dramatic new restriction in shareholder rights if the Third Circuit were to reverse the district court’s decision.”

Rev. Cooper is set to retire as Trinity’s rector on February 15. He’s already briefed his successor, Rev. Dr. William Lupfer of Portland, Oregon’s Trinity Episcopal Cathedral, on the case. Legal counsel Evan Davis — also a church warden — plans to stick with it, even if the appeals process proves arduous.

“Trinity has been here for 318 years,” Cooper said. “We have some things that we can keep doing for a pretty long period of time and this will be one of them.”

Trinity Church rector Rev. James Cooper. Photo: Leo Sorel.      

Document FBCOM00020150209eb29000dz

Litigation Boutiques Hot List
Willingness To Stay the Course Tested; SANFORD HEISLER

PAT WECHSLER 
693 words
2 February 2015
The National Law Journal
NLJ
15
Volume 37; Issue 23
English
Copyright 2015 LexisNexis, a Division of Reed Elsevier, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

This week The National Law Journal highlights litigation firms that are small but powerful. We asked our readers to nominate firms with up to 50 attorneys that won important litigation during calendar year 2014—whether in monetary terms or by establishing precedents at the trial or appellate level—and supplemented those proposals with our own research to find the 10 firms named here.

In the post Wal-Mart Stores Inc. v. Dukes world, many plaintiffs law firms avoid the risk of class actions, particularly those based on employment and gender discrimination claims. Sanford Heisler Kimpel isn't one of them.

Despite the difficulty getting classes certified following that 2011 U.S. Supreme Court decision, Sanford Heisler scored a string of successes in 2014. Among its more notable victories was its innovative use of the Equal Pay Act to win certification for a 9,000-strong class of current and former female employees of KPMG LLP. The case is being litigated before Judge Lorna Schofield in the Southern District of New York.

"KPMG is a great example of how long and how hard plaintiffs have to fight these days to make headway on class cases," said partner Kate Kimpel, lead counsel in the litigation. "The case has been pending for years, and both Sidley Austin and Ogletree Deakins, representing KPMG, have been throwing tremendous resources at it to make it go away, using really exhaustive motions to dismiss and aggressive fights over every small discovery issue along the way. That we've been able to overcome those challenges and establish really good law for plaintiffs elsewhere who might be facing the same kind of opposition makes this case worthy of recognition."

Sanford Heisler, focusing on civil rights and public interest class actions, and with offices in New York, San Francisco and Washington, has won class certification in a host of employment discrimination and wage-and-hour violation actions, including claims against Ma Laboratories Inc. and Daiichi Sankyo Inc.

"This is a tenacious firm, a worthy opponent," said Michael Burkhardt, a partner in Morgan, Lewis & Bockius' labor and employment practice who has faced off against Sanford Heisler in more than 15 cases. "Not many firms will take on these types of cases in the current legal environment, [but] Sanford Heisler continues to pursue class cases."

The firm has attracted not just topdrawer lawyers; it has attracted practitioners committed to the issues the firm litigates, Kimpel said.

"Our lawyers have a real heartfelt passion for these issues, for fighting in the case of KPMG for women and for fighting to break down the glass ceiling," she said. "That creates something very special. It creates those David and Goliath moments where David still has a chance to succeed."

The KPMG case is now close to four years old, but it's not the oldest on Sanford Heisler's books. That distinction goes to a class action filed in 2004 on behalf of African-American U.S. marshals, which was among the first cases Sanford Heisler took on when it opened its doors that same year.

"Now, we're going on Year 11 and it may still require a few more years," partner David Sanford said. "If you're thinking about what differentiates our firm, what in our minds within the firm makes us special, one of the key considerations has to be our willingness to stay the course and do whatever it takes—even if that means a commitment of more than a decade."

TRIAL TIPS

• Everyone knows the key to success in the courtroom is preparation. When you have to be "on" 24/7 in front of a jury, you can't ever be lost.

• Force yourself to be concise and keep your examinations as focused as possible.

• Convey your passion. You have to make it clear to the jury how much you believe in your client and your client's case. If you aren't invested, the jury won't be.

—DAVID SANFORD

FIRM FACTS

• Founded: 2004

• Based: New York, San Francisco, Washington

• Total attorneys: 32

• Partners 10

• Associates: 14

Document NLJ0000020150202eb220000w



The Third Circuit Distinguishes Between Types Of Class Actions For Purposes Of Its Ascertainability Analysis

David Kistler      
546 words
2 February 2015
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2015 Mondaq Ltd      

Action Item:Sheltonis the latest in a recent line of cases from the Third Circuit demonstrating that application of the ascertainability requirement in class action litigation continues to evolve. 

In a recent precedential decision, Shelton v. Bledsoe, the Third Circuit addressed whether ascertainability is a requirement for certification of injunction/declaratory relief class actions arising under Rule 23(b)(2). 2015 WL 74192 (3d Cir. Jan. 7, 2015). While citing to and discussing its recent trilogy of decisions that required an ascertainability finding at the class certification stage in class actions arising under Rule 23(b)(3) (See Marcus v. BMW of N. Am., LLC, 687 F.3d 583 (3d Cir. 2012); Hayes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 725 F.3,d 349 (3d Cir. 2013); Carrera v. Bayer Corp., 727 F.3d 300 (3d Cir. 2013)), the Court in Shelton refused to extend this requirement to injunction/declaratory relief class actions arising under Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(b)(2) and opined that "it does not follow from our holding in Marcus that ascertainability is always a prerequisite to class certification." Shelton, 2015 WL 74192 at *5. 

Shelton, a federal inmate, brought a class action for alleged violations of the Eighth Amendment and the Federal Tort Claims Act. The District Court denied Shelton's motion to certify an injunctive class (among others), because it found that the proposed class was not ascertainable. The Third Circuit reversed the District Court's denial of Shelton's class certification motion. Relying on precedent in other circuits and an Advisory Committee note to Fed. R. Civ. P. 23, the Court noted that "illustrative" examples of Rule 23(b)(2) classes are "various actions in the civil-rights field where a party is charged with discriminating unlawfully against a class, usually one whose members are incapable of specific enumeration." Shelton, 2015 WL 74192 at *5 (citations omitted) (emphasis in original). The Court further opined that  "a judicially-created implied requirement of ascertainability - that the members of the class be capable of specific enumeration - is inappropriate for (b)(2) classes." Id. (emphasis in original).  Importantly, the Court made clear that its decision had no impact on Rule 23(b)(3) class actions, observing that "the requirement that the class be defined in a manner that allows ready identification of class members, serves several important objectives that do not exist or are not compelling in (b)(2) classes." Id.

Thus, while Shelton holds that an ascertainability determination may be unnecessary in injunction/declaratory relief class actions under Rule 23(b)(2), this decision does not disturb the Third Circuit's prior decisions in Marcus, Carrera and Hayes, and ascertainability remains a threshold requirement for Rule 23(b)(3) class actions.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Mr David Kistler

Blank Rome LLP

Watergate

600 New Hampshire Avenue, NW

Washington, DC

20037

UNITED STATES

Fax: 202772585

E-mail: Jenkins-b@blankrome.com

URL: www.blankrome.com

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2015 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Document BBPUB00020150202eb22000um



The Bitter And Sweet Of The Wal-Mart/Comcast/Halliburton Triumvirate: More Grounds For Defeating Class Certification, But More Exposure To Discovery

Chad Readler      
2,685 words
30 January 2015
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2015 Mondaq Ltd      

Corporate litigants are still celebrating recent United States Supreme Court victories by defendants in high-profile class-action cases. As they should. After all, the trio of cases, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes, Comcast Corp. v. Behrend, and Halliburton Co. v. Erica P. John Fund, Inc., mark a fundamental change in class litigation. Following these decisions, lower courts must now engage in a "rigorous analysis" of the prerequisites for class certification—an analysis that frequently "will entail some overlap with the merits of the plaintiff's underlying claim." Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes, 131 S. Ct. 2541, 2551 (2011). Going forward, corporate defendants opposing class certification have a number of new arrows in their litigation quiver to defeat class certification.

Yet with these victories comes the threat of additional costs by way of discovery. With merits considerations now fair game at the certification stage, so too may be class discovery. Historically, class defendants have successfully bifurcated merits discovery from class discovery, cabining their discovery exposure at the class stage. Going forward, however, courts may well give plaintiffs wider berth at the class discovery stage, given the significance that merits issues now play in the certification analysis.

This Commentary discusses how federal district courts have approached discovery in the wake of Wal-Mart, Comcast, and Halliburton. To date, most courts confronting class discovery issues have expanded the scope of plaintiffs' precertification discovery to include merits-based inquiries. But not all courts have followed suit, with some still limiting the scope of discovery in meaningful ways, and others shifting the financial burden of discovery. And still other courts have seized upon more active case management plans to streamline class discovery dramatically. Class-action defendants should pay heed to this developing class-action discovery landscape.

Background

In 2011, the Supreme Court raised the bar for plaintiffs seeking class certification by requiring lower courts to conduct a "rigorous analysis" to determine whether the prerequisites for certification are met. Wal-Mart, 131 S. Ct. at 2551 (reversing the grant of class certification due to a lack of commonality under Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(a)(2)). This "rigorous analysis," the Court explained, often will "entail some overlap with the merits of the plaintiff's underlying claim." Id. In the words of the Court, a merits-entwined inquiry for purposes of class certification "cannot be helped." Id. at 2551-52 (collecting cases).

Two years later, the Supreme Court doubled-down on its "rigorous analysis" requirement for class certification, applying the teachings of Wal-Mart to prospective Rule 23(b)(3) classes as well. See Comcast Corp. v. Behrend, 133 S. Ct. 1426, 1432 (2013) (reversing the grant of class certification due to a lack of predominance under Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(b)(3)). In Comcast, the Court criticized the lower court's "refus[al] to entertain arguments against respondents' damages model that bore on the propriety of class certification, simply because those arguments would also be pertinent to the merits determination." Id. at 1432-33. Rather, the Court's precedents "flatly" require a determination that Rule 23 is satisfied, "even when that requires inquiry into the merits of the claim." Id. at 1433.

The third installment in the Supreme Court's class-action trilogy came in 2014 in Halliburton Co. v. Erica P. John Fund, Inc., 134 S. Ct. 2398 (2014). There, the Supreme Court opened the door even further to merits-based defenses at the class-certification stage—this time in the context of securities class actions. In Halliburton, the Court held that securities defendants can rebut the presumption of reliance under a fraud-on-the-market theory not only during the merits phase but also during class certification. Id. at 2414-15. Securities defendants, moreover, can rebut this presumption through the use of direct and indirect evidence alike. Id. at 2417.

The Wal-Mart/Comcast/Halliburton triumvirate marked big wins for class-action defendants, enabling them to raise merits-based defenses that might otherwise never be presented to a court. That is so because many class cases are settled following certification, given the high stakes of merit-stage proceedings. Now, those merits issues are ripe for consideration at the class stage, to the extent they inform the certification analysis.

But with these new rights come potential new discovery responsibilities. The class-action discovery landscape is changing in the aftermath of Wal-Mart and its progeny. Now more than ever, defendants must balance their litigation strategy to maintain a strong likelihood of defeating class certification while controlling discovery costs.

The "Old Rules" of Precertification Discovery

Before Wal-Mart/Comcast/Halliburton, district courts faced a "threshold question" of whether any precertification discovery was needed. See Manual for Complex Litigation § 21.14 (4th ed. 2004). For claims that rest on readily available and undisputed facts or that raise only issues of law, precertification discovery generally was not warranted. Id.

Likewise, before Wal-Mart/Comcast/Halliburton, even when some discovery was necessary to determine whether the prerequisites for certification were met, courts routinely bifurcated discovery between certification issues and those relating to the merits of the allegations. See, e.g., Cox v. Zurn Pex, Inc. (In re Zurn Pex Plumbing Prods. Liab. Litig.), 644 F.3d 604, 612-13 (8th Cir. 2011) (explaining that it is common in putative class actions for defendants to seek "bifurcated discovery" between class certification and merits issues); Larson v. Burlington N. & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 210 F.R.D. 663, 665 (D. Minn. 2002) ("Here, we conclude that the mandate of Rule 1, Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, is best implemented by bifurcated discovery—that is, by completing discovery as to the claims of the four named-Plaintiffs, prior to extensive discovery on the merits of the 'class claims.'"). Bifurcated discovery was utilized to "increase efficiency" in complex cases and reduce attendant discovery costs for defendants. See Zurn Pex, 644 F.3d at 613.

The "New Rules" of Precertification Discovery

Some Courts Decline to Bifurcate Discovery Post-Wal-Mart/Comcast/Halliburton .Other Courts Continue to Limit the Scope and Costs of Precertification Discovery Post-Wal-Mart/Comcast/Halliburton .Still Other Courts Have Adopted Less Traditional Approaches to Precertification Discovery, Including Cost-Sharing or More Active Case Management Plans.ConclusionFootnoteIn light of recent Supreme Court decisions, trial courts face new questions over the appropriate scope of precertification discovery. Put simply, if defendants can raise merits-based defenses to defeat class certification, as the Supreme Court has authorized, can plaintiffs pursue discovery on the merits before a certification decision?

So far, few opinions address this question head-on. As a general rule, district courts retain broad discretion to manage discovery disputes, and this discretion extends to decisions over bifurcating discovery in class actions. In re Groupon Secs. Litig., No. 12 C 2450, 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 26212, at *5-6 (N.D. Ill. Feb. 24, 2014); see also Evans v. Linden Research, Inc., No. C 11-01078 DMR, 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 58024, at *5-6 (N.D. Cal. Apr. 25, 2012). Courts are utilizing this discretion in different ways.

In the wake of Wal-Mart/Comcast/Halliburton, a growing number of district courts are now "reluctant to bifurcate class-related discovery from discovery on the merits." See Chen-Oster v. Goldman, Sachs & Co., 285 F.R.D. 294, 300 (S.D.N.Y. 2012) (collecting cases); see also Groupon, 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 26212, at *12 (denying defendant's motion for bifurcated discovery and noting that, "in terms of bifurcation, the lesson of [Comcast] is more detrimental to the Defendants' argument than helpful").

For example, in Chen-Oster, the Southern District of New York cited Wal-Mart as the basis for refusing to bifurcate discovery before certification. 285 F.R.D.at 298-301. The court permitted plaintiffs to pursue discovery directed not only "toward general [employment] policies" of Goldman Sachs, which the defendant conceded related to the prerequisites for certification, but also to pursue discovery related to "individualized personnel data" that arguably went to the merits of the plaintiffs' case. Id. at 300-01. As the court explained, "[Wal-Mart] does not ... militate in favor of bifurcating discovery prior to certification. On the contrary, if anything, [Wal-Mart] illustrates the need to develop the record fully before a class motion is considered." Id. at 298.

Similarly, in Groupon, the Northern District of Illinois relied on Wal-Mart and Comcast in denying the defendant's motion to bifurcate discovery. 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 26212, at *12, *15. There, the court looked to three factors to determine whether bifurcated discovery is appropriate: (i) expedience, (ii) economy, and (iii) severability, "meaning whether class certification and merits issues are closely enmeshed." Id. at *6. In discussing the economy of bifurcated discovery, the court noted that oftentimes, "bifurcation can actually increase the costs of litigation because of disputes over what constitutes merits and what constitutes class discovery." Id. at *14. Likewise, because the class-certification analysis post-Wal-Mart will entail some overlap with the merits of the underlying claims, bifurcation will not create the same efficiencies as before. Id. at *14-16 (concluding that defendants had not established a "good reason" to bifurcate discovery).

Several district courts have followed suit in denying defendants' motions for bifurcated discovery, in the wake of recent Supreme Court precedent. See, e.g., Johnson v. Flakeboard Am. Ltd., No. 4:11-2607-TLW-KDW, 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 83702, at *16-17 (D.S.C. Mar. 26, 2012) ("The Supreme Court's decision in [Wal-Mart] supports Plaintiffs' contention that discovery into the merits of the [employment discrimination] claim is necessary before entering findings of fact on whether Rule 23 standards have been met."); In re Cmty. Bank of N. Va. Mortg. Lending Practices Litig., MDL No. 1674, 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 107366, at *24 (W.D. Pa. Sept. 20, 2011) (denying bifurcation in light of Wal-Mart); cf. Feske v. MHC Thousand Trails Ltd. P'ship, No. 11-CV-4124-PSG, 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 47236, at *6 (N.D. Cal. Apr. 3, 2012) (holding that disclosure of members of putative class was "even more appropriate in the wake of [Wal-Mart]").

This growing trend toward broader precertification discovery does not mean, however, that plaintiffs automatically are entitled to merits-based discovery at the certification stage. To obtain such discovery, plaintiffs still must articulate how the materials they seek implicate the class-certification analysis under Rule 23. See Chen-Oster, 285 F.R.D. at 300 (concluding that because "[e]mployment policies do not exist in a vacuum[,]" discovery into putative class members' employment experiences was necessary "to support a finding of commonality"); Johnson v. Flakeboard Am. Ltd., 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 83702, at *17 ("[P]laintiffs are generally entitled to pre-certification discovery to establish the record the court needs to determine whether the requirements for a class action suit have been met" (emphasis added) (quotation omitted)). Absent any overlap between the merits and the prerequisites for class certification, plaintiffs may find themselves hard-pressed to obtain such broad discovery.

Other courts, however, continue to bifurcate discovery to the extent practicable following recent Supreme Court precedent. See Lake v. Unilever U.S., Inc., 964 F. Supp. 2d 893, 933 (N.D. Ill. 2013) ("While the Court recognizes that the class certification and merits issues may overlap in some respects, this alone is not enough to overcome the efficiency benefits to be gained from bifurcated discovery."); see also Christian v. Generation Mortg. Co., No. 12 C 5336, 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 69855, at *11-13 (N.D. Ill. May 16, 2013) (citing the efficiency benefits of bifurcated discovery, granting the defendant's motion to bifurcate, and rejecting the plaintiffs' claim that foreclosing merits discovery "would, in effect, unfairly end the entire case").

Finally, a few courts have adopted less traditional approaches to managing the scope and expense of precertification discovery. In one case, a district court even ordered the plaintiffs to bear the costs of far-reaching discovery regarding class-certification issues. Boeynaems v. LA Fitness Int'l, LLC, 285 F.R.D. 331, 334-41 (E.D. Pa. 2012). In Boeynaems, the court noted that, because class determinations require a "searching inquiry" and "very detailed analysis," the costs of precertification discovery are often unfairly "asymmetrical" to defendants. Id. Accordingly, where class certification is pending and the plaintiffs have asked for extensive discovery, "compliance with which will be very expensive," the plaintiffs should pay for the discovery they seek absent compelling circumstances to the contrary. Id. at 341 ("If the plaintiffs have confidence in their contention that the Court should certify the class, then the plaintiffs should have no objection to making an investment."). Boeynaems appears to be the first instance in which a court has addressed shifting the costs of discovery in a preclass-determination setting. Whether other courts will follow its logic remains to be seen. Boeynaems, however, is a helpful tool for defendants caught in the post-Wal-Mart/Comcast/Halliburton discovery vortex.

Another alternative to permitting extensive precertification discovery is to impose a more active case management plan upon the parties—for example, a case management plan that seeks to resolve certain "death knell" issues from the plaintiffs' complaint before turning to certification. See generally Simms v. Bayer Healthcare LLC (In re Bayer Healthcare), 752 F.3d 1065 (6th Cir. 2014). In Bayer Healthcare, the plaintiffs filed a putative class action against the manufacturers of various flea-and-tick products for dogs and cats, alleging that the manufacturers made false representations regarding their products. Id. at 1067-68. During the case management conference, the district court listened to the parties' arguments before ultimately categorizing the matter as essentially "a one-issue case." Id. at 1069. "The district court then crafted an evidentiary plan for handling the case" and "expressed concerns about spending millions of dollars in discovery." Id. Accordingly, the court limited discovery to whether the defendants could "produce studies that substantiated their advertising claims" and, if so, whether the plaintiffs could refute those studies. Id. at 1069-70.

After the parties submitted their competing evidence, the defendants moved for summary judgment. Id. at 1071. The district court granted summary judgment to the defendants on the grounds that "the case management plan provided for limited discovery and briefing" and that the defendants' studies "substantiated their advertising claims." Id. Thus, the defendants prevailed without ever engaging in extensive discovery regarding the prerequisites for class certification.

Although Bayer Healthcare presented an unusual case management plan, the Sixth Circuit affirmed the grant of summary judgment and rejected the plaintiffs' later claims that they were denied sufficient discovery. Id. at 1074, 1078. Bayer Healthcare thus provides yet another, albeit irregular, path that defendants can pursue in controlling the costs of precertification discovery.1

Wal-Mart, Comcast, and Halliburton offer both the bitter and the sweet to class-action defendants. These decisions arm defendants with powerful tools for defeating class certification. At the same time, the decisions increase the likelihood of broader merits discovery and increased costs at the certification stage. Given the abuse-of-discretion standard for appellate review, clearer rules governing the scope of this discovery will take time to evolve. In the meantime, class-action defendants must know their strategic options available to limit discovery while building the record to defeat class certification.

1 Jones Day served as counsel for defendant Merial Inc. in the trial and appellate proceedings in Bayer Healthcare.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Mr Chad Readler

Jones Day

North Point

901 Lakeside Avenue

Cleveland

44114

UNITED STATES

Tel: 2165863939

Fax: 2165790212

E-mail: mmtomaro@JonesDay.com

URL: www.jonesday.com

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2015 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Document BBPUB00020150130eb1u000gr



The Seventh Circuit Interprets Wisconsin Exemption Law On College Savings Accounts And Retirement Annuities, But Did It Have Jurisdiction? (Part 2 Of 2)

Rachel Blise      
1,623 words
22 January 2015
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2015 Mondaq Ltd      

As we explained in a post yesterday, the Seventh Circuit in In re Bronk (Cirilli v. Bronk), No. 13-1123 (7th Cir. Jan. 5, 2015), made some new law on Wisconsin's college savings account (Edvest) and annuity exemptions for debtors.

But in deciding that it had jurisdiction to decide the annuity issue on the merits, despite the trustee's failure to cross-appeal the bankruptcy court's decision in the debtor's favor to the district court, the Seventh Circuit seems to have missed the jurisdictional boat. As we noted, the court relied entirely, slip op. at 7 n.2, on its decision in Luevano v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 722 F.3d 1014 (7th Cir. 2013), an employment discrimination case under Title VII, not a bankruptcy case.

Luevano was a civil action that spent its entire lower-court career in a district court, which dismissed the initial pro se complaint without prejudice but ultimately (after several repleadings) dismissed the action with prejudice on statute of limitations grounds. The key jurisdictional issue was whether the appeal from the final judgment of dismissal allowed the Seventh Circuit to review the initial dismissal order, since the original complaint had clearly been timely filed. The court allowed the appeal to proceed, citing the "general rule . . . that an appeal from a final judgment allows the appellant to challenge any interlocutory actions by the district court along the way toward that final judgment." Id. at 1019.

But how could the Seventh Circuit apply this "general rule" to a case that was in the district court only on appeal from another court? The court appears, by its reference to "interlocutory actions by the district court along the way toward that final judgment," to refer to the district court's non-final decision resolving the first appeal and remanding the case to the bankruptcy court for further proceedings on the annuity issue. Had the trustee properly invoked the district court's jurisdiction to get to that court a second time, the district court's first decision (i.e., its rationale for allowing the annuity exemption) would have been subsumed in its second, summary decision affirming the bankruptcy court. The problem is that the district court seems not to have had jurisdiction to issue the second decision to the extent that it affirmed the bankruptcy court's order on the annuity issue.

The Bronk court's essential holding on the jurisdictional issue is that the debtor's notice of appeal from the bankruptcy court was sufficient to re-invoke the district court's jurisdiction to decide all other issues previously before it in the same case. As most bankruptcy practitioners know from painful experience, a large bankruptcy case can involve a number of appeals to the district court, with issues bouncing between the bankruptcy and district courts for years. The rule in Bronk, that the district court had jurisdiction to consider the annuity issue on the second appeal, effectively allows an aggrieved party to bring up its argument again and again in subsequent appeals to the district court, despite having failed to appeal the bankruptcy court's intervening orders. That cannot be the rule, either as a practical matter or a legal one.

Having remanded the case to the bankruptcy court after the first appeal, the district court no longer had jurisdiction over the case and could reacquire jurisdiction only by another valid appeal by an aggrieved party. The bankruptcy court's second order on the annuity issue was a final, appealable order providing the avenue for an appeal by which the district court could have reacquired jurisdiction. Bankruptcy Rule 8002(a) required the trustee to file a notice of appeal within 14 days after the bankruptcy court's second order, or within 14 days after the debtor's earlier notice of appeal. The trustee did not do that, relying instead on the debtor's notice of appeal to invoke the district court's jurisdiction the second time around. While the circuits are split on the jurisdictional necessity of a notice of cross-appeal generally, see, e.g., Mendocino Envtl. Ctr. v. Mendocino Cnty., 192 F.3d 1283, 1298 (9th Cir. 1999) (collecting cases), the Seventh Circuit long ago came down on the side of treating a cross-appeal as a jurisdictional prerequisite to the court of appeals' providing relief to a cross-appellant from the district court. Chowaniec v. Arlington Park Race Track, Ltd., 934 F.2d 128, 130 (7th Cir. 1991). Without a timely notice of appeal here, the district court could not rule in the trustee's favor on the annuity issue, and, therefore, neither could the Seventh Circuit. 28 U.S.C. § 1291 gives the courts of appeals jurisdiction only over appeals from "final decisions" of district courts. The district court's second decision on the annuity issue cannot have been a final decision because it lacked jurisdiction to issue it.

Although it may seem odd for the trustee to have to ask the district court (through a timely notice of appeal) to reconsider the holding it made on the annuity issue during the first appeal (a request the trustee knew the court would deny), litigants seeking redress from a higher court often must repeatedly ask courts at lower stages of a proceeding to reconsider prior legal rulings, or even to overrule long-settled precedent, for the sake of preserving the issues for appellate review. Indeed, the debtor in this case did just that by filing a notice of appeal from the bankruptcy court's second decision, which did not even address the Edvest issue (on which the district court had already affirmed the bankruptcy court's initial ruling), but the debtor knew he needed to re-appeal to the district court to preserve his argument for Seventh Circuit review.

We pause to consider the continuing validity of cases like Chowaniec and their applicability to bankruptcy appeals and cross-appeals. Chowaniec was decided before the Supreme Court's decision in Bowles v. Russell, 551 U.S. 205 (2007), in which the Court distinguished between time limits that are jurisdictional and those that are merely claims-processing rules. Jurisdictional time limits, said the Court, are those grounded in statute, such as the 30-day deadline to file a notice of appeal from the district court to the court of appeals, Fed. R. App. P. 4(a)(1) (the rule at issue in Bowles), grounded in the statutory time limit for appeal set in 28 U.S.C. § 2107. All other time limits in the rules do not affect the jurisdiction of federal courts and can be relaxed in the right circumstances. The deadline to file a notice of cross-appeal in Fed. R. App. P. 4(a)(3) (again, from the district court to the court of appeals) has no basis in statute, potentially making the rule a claims-processing rule, rather than a jurisdictional bar to consideration of a cross-appeal, and leaving the Chowaniec holding subject to re-examination in the right case.

But the deadline for cross-appeals from the bankruptcy court to the district court, unlike cross-appeals to the court of appeals under Fed. R. App. P. 4(a)(3), does have a statutory basis. 28 U.S.C. § 158(c) provides that an appeal under 28 U.S.C. § 158(a) (the basis for the Bronk appeal) shall be taken "in the time provided by Rule 8002 of the Bankruptcy Rules." Bankruptcy Rule 8002 in turn sets the time limit for both appeals and cross-appeals. Although it delegated the determination of the precise number of days to the rules committee, Congress did set the cross-appeal deadline in a statute. At least one court has held that the language in § 158(c) referring to the time limits in Rule 8002 makes the deadline a jurisdictional bar to consideration of a bankruptcy appeal. See In re Latture, 605 F.3d 830, 837 (10th Cir. 2010). Thus, even after Bowles, a timely notice of cross-appeal by the trustee seems to have been jurisdictionally necessary if the district court in Bronk was to consider the trustee's second appeal (and, therefore, if the court of appeals was to consider the trustee's appeal).

In the end, of course, it makes little difference to the parties whether the district court's decision on the annuity question was affirmed or the appeal from it was dismissed for lack of jurisdiction. But it makes a difference for the development of the law, for the Seventh Circuit should not have resolved the annuity question on the merits. Of course, the Seventh Circuit's decision on both statutory interpretation questions is not definitive. The Wisconsin Legislature can change the statutes, if it doesn't like the result, and the Wisconsin Supreme Court can decide the interpretation questions differently, in which case the federal courts will have to follow the state decision. But unless and until one of those things happens, this annuity decision, made by a court that lacked jurisdiction to decide it, will govern interpretation of the statute in the bankruptcy and district courts of Wisconsin.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Ms Rachel Blise

Foley & Lardner

321 N. Clark, Ste. 2800

Chicago

Illinois, 60610

UNITED STATES

Tel: 3128324500

Fax: 3128324700

E-mail: Skilburg@foley.com

URL: www.foley.com

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2015 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Document BBPUB00020150122eb1m000md



National/Regional
Morning Scan: Obama Plans to Fight for Dodd-Frank; Walmart's Latest Move

By Andy Peters      
682 words
22 January 2015
American Banker
AMB
Vol.1, No.11
English
(c) 2015 American Banker and SourceMedia, Inc.    All rights reserved.      

Breaking News This Morning ...

Earnings: Fifth Third, U.S. Bancorp

Receiving Wide Coverage ...

SOTU from POTUS: Banking and finance played a lead role in President Obama's State of the Union address on Tuesday night. For one, Obama vowed to keep Dodd-Frank intact, saying the law's rules and the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau are protecting American consumers. However, Obama avoided direct bashing of banks, declining to take up the same rhetoric as Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass. An example of Obama's speech that touched on banks shows he could have taken a far tougher approach: "We have new tools to stop taxpayer-funded bailouts and a new consumer watchdog to protect us from predatory lending and abusive credit card practices." Still, Obama again talked of a new fee levied on the biggest banks, calculated based on their levels of risk, which has been called a "financial crisis responsibility fee." The fee would probably be directed at not only banks, but also other financial institutions. Obama didn't discuss the tax in any detail. Most media outlets noted that, with a Republican-led Congress, Obama's proposals stand little chance of passage.

Cash in Their Pockets: With tax season underway, Walmart has declared war on a new front with banks: handing out tax refunds in cash for little or no fees. It's the retailing giant's latest move into financial services. Walmart's product, called Direct2Cash, is being developed in partnership with Republic Bank & Trust, a Louisville, Ky., bank that once offered tax refund-anticipation loans before running afoul of regulators, and Tax Products Group. The Direct2Cash product will be available in about 3,000 of its stores. Customers will be able to get their refund in about a week, the same time it would take if for a direct deposit refund on an electronically filed return, the Times reported. The service is aimed, as are most of Walmart's financial-services products, at underbanked consumers who likely don't have a bank account. A customer will be able to pick up a maximum of $7,500 cash refund. The service is available through select tax-preparation companies (Walmart hasn't released the list of those firms yet) and is not available to people who file their taxes electronically.

Wall Street Journal

The Supreme Court will take up the issue of disparate impact on Wednesday, a subject with wide-ranging effects for mortgage lenders. Countrywide (now part of Bank of America), SunTrust and Wells Fargo are among the banks that reached financial settlements with the Justice Department after they were accused of charging higher rates to minority borrowers. But the state of Texas wants to roll back Fair Housing Act requirements and continue to give subsidies to developers that build housing in low-income, mostly African American areas, without the fear of discrimination lawsuits. Housing advocates want the law to continue to be enforced, saying the developers who build in these areas and who receive subsidies should be held accountable by being forced to build subsidized housing in higher-income areas as well.

The "Heard on the Street" column looks at why American Express is viewed as a premium credit card, but shares of American Express don't trade at a premium compared to rivals.

New York Times

The Times convenes a group of six industry experts and players to weigh in on the topic of payday loans. Commentators like Gary Kalman of the Center for Responsible Lending and Valerie Wilson of the Economic Policy Institute say predatory interest rates should be banned, while Jamie Fulmer of the lender Advance America, says banks and nonbanks should be allowed to compete by the same rules, and thus on a level playing field. Former CFPB deputy director Raj Date carves out a middle ground, of sorts, saying an improved regulatory scheme could allow consumers to continue to access short-term credit, but without the punishing interest rates and fees. 

Document AMB0000020150121eb1l000b5

News,Local News
Hundreds of ASDA workers in Lanarkshire could take action in new equal pay row

By Gary Fanning      
507 words
21 January 2015
04:54 AM
dailyrecord.co.uk
DRECRONL
English
© 2015 Trinity Mirror      

1000 staff in England have lodged tribunal claim against supermarket giants

Hundreds of ASDA workers in Lanarkshire could take legal action against the supermarket giants in a new equal pay claim, the Wishaw Press can reveal.

And they would be following colleagues down south where 1000 staff or former employees have lodged tribunal claims against the firm.

The workers, many of them female and earning around £7 per hour, claim they are not paid the same rate as male colleagues in the distribution warehouses - despite equivalent jobs.

They are packing and upacking pallets of clothes and food and putting stock on shelves through the night.

But shop workers claim they are being paid around £4 per hour less than their male counterparts in warehouse who are unloading the same items from the trucks to the store.

The workers, many of them female, are being represented by law firm Leigh Day and, if successful, would receive a pay rise and also thousands of pounds in compensation as their claim would be backdated six years. In addition, interest could be around eight per cent.

ASDA have stores in Newmains, Motherwell, Hamilton, Blantyre, Coatbridge and Cumbernauld, and many of the staff could be in line for a payout if the claims are successful.

John Gildea, of Gildea solicitors, told the Wishaw Press: “Some of these women could be in for a massive payout.

“If men taking the goods from trucks from the depot and into the store are getting paid up to £4 per hour more than women who are taking the same goods off the shelves and loading them into the truck in the depot, then men and women are doing the same kind of job but not getting the same pay for it.

“There will be hundreds of people who work in ASDA across Lanarkshire who could make a claim.

“And if these women win, it will have major ramifications for other supermarkets.

Mr Gildea ,who has represented clients involved in an equal pay claim against South Lanarkshrie Council, added: “I am surprised that this is going on in this day and age.

“The Equal Pay Act came into effect in the 1970s.

“I am surprised that nothing has changed since then.”

A spokeswoman for ASDA this week refuted the discrimination in pay.

“A firm of no-win, no-fee lawyers are hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer,” she added.

“We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend.”

Last year, South Lanarkshire Council had to pay about £70m to 3500 employees in a long-running equal pay claim dispute.

And North Lanarkshire Council have paid out £38m to 6500 people.

The council insist they have made an offer to other claimaints’ solicitors and they remain in talks in good faith to try to reach a solution.

Document DRECRONL20150121eb1l000xg



News
It ASDA be equal pay

Gary Fanning      
483 words
21 January 2015
Wishaw Press
WISHPRE
1; National
9
English
© 2015 Trinity Mirror      

Hundreds of ASDA workers in Lanarkshire could take legal action against the supermarket giants in a new equal pay claim, the Wishaw Press can reveal.

And they would be following colleagues down south where 1000 staff or former employees have lodged tribunal claims against the firm.

The workers, many of them female and earning around £7 per hour, claim they are not paid the same rate as male colleagues in the distribution warehouses - despite equivalent jobs.

They are packing and upacking pallets of clothes and food and putting stock on shelves through the night.

But shop workers claim they are being paid around £4 per hour less than their male counterparts in warehouse who are unloading the same items from the trucks to the store.

The workers, many of them female, are being represented by law firm Leigh Day and, if successful, would receive a pay rise and also thousands of pounds in compensation as their claim would be backdated six years. In addition, interest could be around eight per cent.

ASDA have stores in Newmains, Motherwell, Hamilton, Blantyre, Coatbridge and Cumbernauld, and many of the staff could be in line for a payout if the claims are successful.

John Gildea, of Gildea solicitors, told the Wishaw Press: "Some of these women could be in for a massive payout.

"If men taking the goods from trucks from the depot and into the store are getting paid up to £4 per hour more than women who are taking the same goods off the shelves and loading them into the truck in the depot, then men and women are doing the same kind of job but not getting the same pay for it.

"There will be hundreds of people who work in ASDA across Lanarkshire who could make a claim.

"And if these women win, it will have major ramifications for other supermarkets.

Mr Gildea ,who has represented clients involved in an equal pay claim against South Lanarkshrie Council, added: "I am surprised that this is going on in this day and age. "The Equal Pay Act came into effect in the 1970s.

"I am surprised that nothing has changed since then."

A spokeswoman for ASDA this week refuted the discrimination in pay.

"A firm of no-win, nofee lawyers are hoping to challenge our award-winning reputation as an equal opportunities employer," she added.

"We do not discriminate and are very proud of our record in this area which, if it comes to it, we will robustly defend."

Last year, South Lanarkshire Council had to pay about £70m to 3500 employees in a long-running equal pay claim dispute.

And North Lanarkshire Council have paid out £38m to 6500 people.

The council insist they have made an offer to other claimaints' solicitors and they remain in talks in good faith to try to reach a solution.

Document WISHPRE020150121eb1l00027

Search Summary

 All of these words

     At least one of these words
discrimination discriminatory discriminate discriminates discriminated discriminating harassment
     None of these words

     This exact phrase

     Date
01/20/2015 to 03/21/2015
     Source
All Sources
     Author
All Authors
     Company
Walmart Inc
     Subject
All Subjects
     Industry
All Industries
     Region
All Regions
     Language
English
     Results Found
38
     Timestamp
16 June 2023 10:32 AM
    
