 
•	THE ED SHOW for February 25, 2014, MSNBC
•	Bank overtime case to test class action sampling
•	Palm Beach Gardens law office to merge with larger firm
•	Leopold Law Firm to Merge with Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC
•	Target Loses On Loyalty; Walmart Gains
•	Targets Loses On Loyalty; Walmart Gains
•	This Walmart worker went from temp to store manager. Here's why that's so tough. ; The retail industry wants you to think that everybody ca...
•	CEOs Pledge Support for Obama's Effort to Help Long-Term Unemployed -- WSJ Blog
•	CNN exclusive: Obama says Walmart, Apple, others to help jobless
•	CNN exclusive: Obama says Walmart, Apple, others to help jobless
•	Shegerian & Associates Founder Points to Wal-Mart Case as "Textbook Example of Unlawful Retaliation"
•	Wal-Mart to Pay $87,500 to Settle EEOC Suit for Unlawful Retaliation
•	Plea Of Not Guilty Entered To Falls Burglary
•	The ERISA Litigation Newsletter - January 2014
•	African-American Managers Sought 10 Depositions Per Party; CIVIL PRACTICE
•	Fourth Circuit Argues With Itself Over Dukes’ Application
•	Cullen v. State Farm – The Ohio Supreme Court Returns To Rule 23 Issues
•	Seyfarth Shaw releases annual workplace class action lawsuit report
•	New Poll Finds Strong U.S. Consumer Support for Alaska Seafood, Disapproval for Marine Stewardship Council Policies
•	Alaska Fishermen to Walmart: "Why Didn't You Keep Your Promise to Congress?"
•	X APPEAL
•	From Paula Deen To Peekaboo Pants: Biggest Retail Flops Of 2013

News; Domestic
THE ED SHOW for February 25, 2014, MSNBC

Ed Schultz      
7,971 words
25 February 2014
MSNBC: The Ed Show with Ed Schultz
EDSHOW
English
© 2014 MSNBC. All rights reserved. Prepared by CQ-Roll Call, Inc.      

ED SCHULTZ, MSNBC HOST: Good evening Americans and welcome to the Ed Show live from New York. Let`s get to work.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: Protect our environment and open new markets to new goods, stamps made in the USA.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Walmart`s new big idea? It`s made in the U.S.A.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We will build things, and build families, and build dreams.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Is that afraid that to dirty dogs that now people are slinging mud because he`s supporting Walmart jobs?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All the ad really did was announced Walmart`s intention over the next decades by quarter of a trillion dollars worth of U.S. made products.

MARC LAMONT HILL, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST: You`re saying you can`t be a champion of the everyday guy, the everyday woman and then where the Walmart.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They make around 12,000 a year which is poverty levels (ph). You know, on that food base a lot.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: People who work at Walmart can barely afford to shop at Walmart.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: 133,000 U.S. manufacturing jobs were lost to China because of Walmart.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I`m not the spokesman for Walmart. I`m a spokesman for American Manufacturing.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCHULTZ: Good to have you with us tonight folks. Thanks for watching.

A lot more coming up from the XL Pipeline on the back after the show. Lots of interviews and information coming up.

You know, in our business or in any business, sales solves a lot of problems. You got to believe the pitchman and there`s been some great ones over the years. I remember, growing up, I use to listen to the radio all the time and it was Paul Harvey. He wanted to give me a ride in his viewing. Gosh, he was good. If you`re good to radio commercials like Paul Harvey, you had a chance. There`s no doubt about it.

And I always wondered if Fred Thompson ever really did get a reverse mortgage, you know, there`s pitchman everywhere. Mike Rowe and Walmart? Really? Talking about American jobs is easy. Put your money where your mouth is. Well, that`s the hard part.

TV host Mike Rowe`s partnership with Walmart, I find to be very puzzling. And in the start of their national debate about American jobs at a different level. You see, the conversation has been going on for a while but not with Walmart. But now, it`s entering the mainstream media with this ad.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I believe I will rise again. We will build things and build families and build dreams. It`s time to get back to what America does best. Because work is beautiful thing.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCHULTZ: Oh, if you got good commercials, you can sell a lot of product. Now, does this mean that Walmart`s going to be raising their prices? Because everybody knows it does cost a little bit more to manufacture stuff in America. You know, a rising tide lifts all boats.

Mike Rowe, the host of Dirty Jobs has appeared on the show. Good guy. Really. I believe he honestly wants to bring back American jobs, but his partnership with Walmart, I think is completely misguided.

For Walmart, this campaign to me is just nothing but another PR ploy to make you think that they really care about jobs. You see, Walmart knows exactly where they stand with the public. They`re just trying to make up some ground because they`ve lost some ground. Maybe not when it comes to profit, but when it comes to the image business, do you really think of Walmart as American goods and a place where you can go to get them? I doubt it.

Now, according to the Economic Policy Institute, Walmart`s trade deficit with China between 2001 and 2006, well, it helped destroy 200,000 jobs in this country. An estimated 133,000 of those were manufacturing jobs. Manufacturing is a long term investment with the potential for long term benefits for any economy.

Ask the Germans. Walmart is the largest private sector employer in the United States. Good for them. Despite the fact that Walmart posted a $16 billion net income in 2013, the American taxpayer. Yeah. That would be you and me.

We continue to pick up the tab for Walmart`s poverty wages and that`s exactly what they are. You see, Walmart workers receive over $2 billion in government assistance each year which can work out to be over $1 million in public assistance per store or up to $5,815 per Walmart worker.

They got a heck of a gig going on, don`t they? You and I are helping them make a dollar, all those billions of dollars.

Let me give to you those famous low prices Walmart outsources. That`s what they do.

President Obama address the importance of U.S. based manufacturing today.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: For generations of Americans, manufacturing was the ticket to a good middle-class life. We made stuff. And the stuff we made like steel and cars and planes, made us the economic leader of the world. And the work was hard, but the jobs were good. And if you got on an assembly plant in Detroit or in a steel plant in Youngstown, you could buy a home. You could raise kids. You could send them to college. You could retire with some security. And those jobs didn`t just tell us how much we were worth, they told us how we were contributing to the society and how we were helping to build America, and gave people a sense of dignity and purpose.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCHULTZ: Very interesting. Twice in that sound bite, the president mentioned steel. Steel prices have taken to hit as of late because of this lousy trade agreement we have with Korea. Korea now has 30 percent of the steel market out there and they`re pushing prices way down and that`s affecting American jobs.

We`ll have the full story for you on that next week here on the Ed Show. Just give me a little time.

But in the meantime, folks continue over the TPP Trade Agreement. This is such a good deal, ain`t it? The trade talk they stalled last night which is good news where the United States and Japan -- they`re great friends of ours -- could not agree on market access. That`s a mouthful.

You mean to tell me the Japanese want to bring in a lot of product to America but they really don`t want to take too much American product? This is a significant development if you care about American jobs. This gives Americans more time to voice their concerns about the trade agreement which I don`t think we should be messing with.

President Obama is aware that past trade agreements haven`t been on the best interest of American workers. Take a listen to what he said just last week in Mexico.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: And I`ve said this to some of my own constituents who are opposed to trade that those who are concerned about losing jobs or outsourcing need to understand some of the old agreements put us at a disadvantage, that`s exactly why we`ve got to have stronger agreements to protect our intellectual property, that open up markets to our agricultural products, that make sure that when it comes to government procurements or sovereign wealth funds in these other countries, that they`re not taking advantage of our business and preventing us from competing there. That`s exactly why we`ve got to get this done.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCHULTZ: Somebody has to sit down with the president new (ph) and get a long interview on trade and exactly find out how much better the TPP is than NAFTA.

The bottom line is, it isn`t a stronger agreement. The TPP is just as bad. It got worse than past agreements including NAFTA.

Now, here`s what the bottom line is. You got to believe the pitchman. Hey look, Mike Rowe, great guy, no question about it. But does he really believe that Walmart is in it for American jobs and manufacturing? You mean that Walmart is going to go out and they`re going to seek out American factories to make sure that that product gets on their shelves so they can have low prices? No, it doesn`t work that way.

Our standard of living in this country has been diminished because we have had lousy trade agreements. In this idea about reinvigorating the American economy, and oh by the way, the largest importer in the country is going to make a commitment to American manufacturing. Oh man. I want that story.

Get your cellphones out. I want to know what you think tonight`s question. Can you be for American jobs and the TPP? Text A for Yes, text B for No to 67622. You can always go to our blog at ed.msnbc.com. We`ll bring you the results later on in this show.

Joining me tonight is Lori Wallach. She is the director of Public Citizens Global Trade Watch. She joins us tonight to talk about this. And Lori, great to have you with us.

This is a subject that you have been front and center on for a long time and I want to get right to what is happening with the TPP. Japan and America. They couldn`t come to an agreement on market access. What are we talking about here? What`s market access? It was the definition of why they can`t get the deal done.

LORI WALLACH, PUBLIC CITIZENS GLOBAL TRADE WATCH: So, Japan has a certain set of agricultural products that they consider sacred -- rice, beef, barley, wheat, dairy, and they have said, and in fact, the ruling party, the current prime minister`s party has said, they will not accept zeroing out of tear-ups on those commodities. At the same time, they`re trying to get the U.S. to get rid of tear-ups in automobiles and the U.S. is asking for a very long face out plus for better rights to get into the Japanese market that go beyond tear-ups.

And so, on those old fashion trade issues, they`re very stuck. But all the focus on that really obscured the fact that actually there are a lot of TPP issues that aren`t really trade ones that gotten stuck like the U.S. keeps insisting on all of these extensions of patterns (ph) and other policies that would increase medicine prices. And the other countries are saying, ixnay (ph) or the U.S. is saying let`s limit financial regulation and allow -- the countries are saying no. Or the U.S. is actually been pushing this fairly, crazy investor-state corporate tribunal rules and now another country is joining Australian saying.

SCHULTZ: Sure.

WALLACH: . no.

SCHULTZ: So there`s a lot on the table to unpack, so to speak, on the TPP. But, getting to Walmart, does a company like that fuel trade agreements like this?

WALLACH: You can see up in the halls pushing for fast track. The extraordinary outrageous legislative leisure (ph) on process, the president wants to trail a rail road TPP into place, folks like Walmart, Kmart, all of the big retailers are running around, they actually love the rules that were in NAFTA that are also in TPP, they`re at the core of TPP that actually promote off-shoring of U.S. jobs. These are the investor protections that literally remove most of the risks that would always otherwise be associated with going to a place like Vietnam with the wages are much lower than even China.

SCHULTZ: Yeah.

WALLACH: 50 cents an hour. So these guys love this agreement because it`s a way to get cheap stuff so they have a bigger margin.

SCHULTZ: Lori Wallach, good to have you with us tonight. We will follow the story in this latest development of the TPP.

Let`s turn now to Larry Cohen who`s the president in Communication Workers of America. Larry, good to have you on with us tonight.

LARRY COHEN, PRESIDENT, COMMUNICATION WORKERS OF AMERICA: Good to be in here.

SCHULTZ: The president -- you know, I going to give a credit. He talks a good game. He talks a great game but he`s for the TPP in one`s fast track. So, which President Obama are we talking about here?

COHEN: Well, it`d be great to go back to the President Obama in the campaign of 2008 when he made it clear that he stood with American workers, with the environmental community, we can have it both ways, he knows that too. We can always call out export sectors, but the question is where is the net at the end of the day? And as you`ve said so often, there`s a trillion dollars in trade deficits from this trade deals. This one`s the worst one ever. There is no change, whatsoever. We, the citizens in this country need to say, here`s what 21st century trade should look like and it`s not the 20th century version.

SCHULTZ: Yeah. Now, do you believe that Walmart is going to make a consorted effort to make sure that they buy American manufactured goods and put them on the shelf for those low, low prices where they`ve made billions of dollars? And if they do that, is this going to turn into better wages for the workers who are on public assistance?

COHEN: Yeah. Well, first of all, as you`ve said, the main reason, the number one reason that every White House dichotomist knows that we`ve had no wage increases for decades here has been a global economy and our response to it compared to a nation like Germany as you mentioned. That`s number one. Number two, I`m sure Walmart will promote certain products. They`ll find a flag made in the U.S. and waving. But, net -- no, no way are they going to shift their strategy as you just pointed out because that would be directly at the cost of their profits and that would be a shock to all of us.

SCHULTZ: The more we hear about the TPP, the more facets of the economy it really affects. Agriculture. American farmers in the middle of the country ought to be paying attention to this because we are going to be forced to bring in so much agricultural products as opposed to putting them out. We`re the best producer on the phase of the earth when it comes to egg products. Why would we want to serve that up?

COHEN: Well, I think it`s a split, as you know, better than most of us coming from the planes, it`s the split between corporate farmers and fertilizer companies and chemical producers like Montano (ph) and the family farmer who loses out every time. And the worst of this is they wouldn`t be able to label your produce or your meat or anything else made in the USA. Part of TPP will be eliminate those vary labeling requirements that the president talked about.

SCHULTZ: And the president just talked about by American. There`s nothing in the TPP that calls for that. That`s a great slogan but nowhere has ever been put in any trade agreement that forces anybody to buy an American good which would correlate directly to the increase in manufacturing jobs in this country, period.

COHEN: Yeah. Absolutely. Or agriculture. In fact, they would wipe out the by America label. The last remnant of hope in terms of how does a consumer, if they wanted to, identifies things that were made here.

SCHULTZ: All right. Larry Cohen, President in Communication Workers of America. Good to have you with us tonight. I appreciate your time.

Remember to answer tonight`s question there at the bottom of the screen and share your thoughts on Twitter @EdShow, and on Facebook, we want to know what you think.

Coming up, the faith of a controversial discrimination bill in Arizona will be decided this week.

What is she waiting for? And I`m talking about the Governor of Arizona. Congressman Jim McDermott joins me next to discuss whether Jan Brewer will do the right thing. She says she`ll do the right thing. What`s that?

Plus, we continue our special series "Divided Heartland, The American Debate." Proponents to the Keystone XL Pipeline get their chance to weigh in. Stick around.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SCHULTZ: You don`t feel any environmental threat at all?

Male: No I don`t, no I don`t. And of course I`m raising crop right on top of this pipe. And you know, had all kinds of things -- it won`t dry, it won`t freeze, and it`ll be soft there and everything else. Never have a problem.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

SCHULTZ: Time now for the Trenders. In the social media this is where you can find us. Facebook.com/EdShow. I appreciate all your Twitter activity on the pipeline stories that have been coming up. And also Twitter.com/EdShow and ed.msnbc.com. On the radio, Monday through Friday, SiriusXM 127 noon to 3:00. And of course you can get my pod cast and my radio website at wegoted.com.

The Ed Show social media nation has been deciding all day and we`re reporting tonight.

Here are today`s top Trenders voted on by you.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOE BIDEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: A big time guy like me.

SCHULTZ: The number three trender, vit (ph).

SETH MEYERS: You`ve been very open about talking about 2016.

BIDEN: I have this plan on making a major announcement tonight. But I decided tonight`s your night. Thank you.

SCHULTZ: Joe Biden brings the laughs on Late Night with Seth Meyers.

MEYERS: Look how happy he was.

BIDEN: I really got into it man. Except they said keep your hands off the controls.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Don`t touch it.

MEYERS: You guys have any other projects lined up?

AMY POEHLER: Yeah, we`re going to do -- make somebody train (ph).

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I have had it with these monkey fighting snakes on this Monday to Friday plane (ph).

SCHULTZ: The number two trender, personal foul.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Banning gays from the NFL?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Who`s ball? But all the goal monsters (inaudible) each other.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Lobbyist Jack Burkman plans to impose legislation banning gay athletes from joining the National Football Leagues.

JACK BURKMAN: It`s about restoring common decency.

SCHULTZ: A lobbyist pushes legislation to ban gay players from the NFL.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He said he came out with the idea after college football star Michael Sam came out of the game in.

MICHAEL SAM: I just wish you guys will see me as Michael Sam, the football player than (ph) Michael Sam, the gay football player.

BURKMAN: And we expect to have a lot of support.

SAM: I just want to do what I love to do and that`s to play football.

SCHULTZ: And today`s top trender, bias cuts.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We have to decide if we want to be a state that continues to legislate hate or if we want to be a state that is open for doing business with everybody.

SCHULTZ: As Arizona`s discriminatory bill gets pushed back.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It`s bad for us, owners.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It`s bad for business.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Blake said "I hope Governor Brewer vetoes SB1062 and Senator McCain echo the sentiments.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I`ve got plenty of time.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Veto this bill. Veto this bill.

SCHULTZ: Legislators are peachy keen on pushing it in Georgia.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It`s called the preservation of Religious Freedom Act.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Responses of the bill state, its goal is to protect people and businesses from being, of course, to do things that are against their religious beliefs.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There will be people saying "I won`t serve (inaudible), so I won`t serve anyone who`s gay." How did they know?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Inaudible) does not (inaudible) with constitution. I have it (inaudible).

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: If we just Liberty Protectin go there to be a shield to protect your religion, not a sort to hurt other people`s religion.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCHULTZ: I spoke to the Arizona progressives in Phoenix on Saturday night, and of course, this was a big story down there and they were all shaking their heads in embarrassment. They cannot believe that the Republicans in the House and the Senate have passed this and now, it`s going to one person, the governor, who says that she`s going to do the right thing. What`s the delay?

Joining me tonight, Congressman Jim McDermott of Washington. Jim, good to have you with us tonight. I mean, it`s like these state Republican Houses are trying to out crazy one another. This -- we have fought discrimination in this country for decades to get where we are and if this is in a step back, I don`t know what is. Do you view this in just amazement?

REP. JIM MCDERMOTT, (D) WASHINGTON: I -- when I heard about this, this morning, I thought to myself, I thought I`d seen every crazy thing in the world that could happen in a state legislature. But this really beat them all. I mean, it is so stupid -- first of all, it`s unconstitutional and it`s unfair and it`s wrong but it`s unenforceable. What are you going to do when somebody walks into your store to buy a suite or buy a new shirt? You`re going to say, "Are you gay or are you straight? Well, if you`re gay, you`ll have to leave. I`m not going to serve you." I mean, what kind of craziness is this?

SCHULTZ: Well, this.

MCDERMOTT: There is no way this can work.

SCHULTZ: This bill gives business owners the legal room to say, "Get out of my store because you got a turban on." I just don`t think it`s about the gay and lesbian community. I think that there`s a lot of other things that play into this, too. How a person looks is going to be judged. And then they`re going to have the legal back up to say, "Well, I threw him out of my store and I wouldn`t serve him because it was against my religious beliefs."

I mean, isn`t there a broad area here for interpretation that could lead to confrontation?

MCDERMOTT: Well, we actually had that in Seattle. If you remember back in 2001, we had to seek a man with a turban beating almost to death and he owned a motel and one of the people in there thought he was one of the people who was causing all the problems in New York and used a baseball bat on him. We formed the Seattle a free zone immediately and said, "We don`t care what you look like or who you are. You are safe in this city." And what they`re doing opening up this in Arizona is just opening up all the awfulness of hating people.

SCHULTZ: That`s exactly what it does. And, of course, we know how they love firearms in Arizona. I mean, I think this opens the door for confrontation because there`s going to be an interpretation going to have to be made at the scene as to why someone is not being served when they`re being discriminated against in their mind, and of course, by the law would back it up.

Now, what`s amazing to me is that all day long, I`ve heard say, "Well, there`s a lot of Republicans against it. Well, there`s a lot of Republicans in Arizona." No, no, no, no, no, wait a minute. Hold on, hold on. The Republicans in the House and the Senate, they passed this. This is what they want as a majority body in a state. They want to discriminate. They want to target. And they want to open the door to confrontation. And now, it`s up to the governor to set them all straight. No, the Republicans are for this and I don`t think we can give them any room on this. Your thoughts on that congressman.

MCDERMOTT: Well, I hope that the people of Arizona remember that this is a representative government, and that when election time comes, they throw the whole bunch out. People who would put something like this up and seriously vote for it and act like it`s a reasonable thing to do simply are not representing most Americans. Even most people in Arizona, I can`t believe that they are representative.

SCHULTZ: Yeah.

MCDERMOTT: . of the people.

SCHULTZ: Well.

MCDERMOTT: And I think they`ll get it in the next election.

SCHULTZ: Well, I hope so. You know, the Arizona progressives are getting organized. That was a rather -- impressed with, you know, how much heart and desire they have to make a change. And maybe this will do it. This will open up their ass in the second session and try to get some good things done.

Now I open this up saying, states are trying to out crazy one another on the right. How about down in Georgia, Congressman Paul Broun laid out his criteria for voting on a bill. Here it is.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

REP. PAUL BROUN, (R) GEORGIA: The four questions that I ask about all legislation. All four have to be asked (inaudible). The first, is it constitutional according to the original intent? The second, does it fit the Judeo-Christian Biblical principles that our nation is founded upon? Three, do we need it? Fourth, can we afford it?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCHULTZ: Does his record back up those Judeo-Christian Biblical principles?

MCDERMOTT: I, you know, I don`t know his record well enough but I doubt that he has followed them very much because it`s trying to make this a religious country is just not the American way. There`s always compromises. We are made up of Muslims, and we are made up of Protestants, and Catholics, and Jews, and Bahai. And there`s all kinds of people in this country. Anybody who wants to run their life on simply the biblical principles is not able to make the compromises necessary to make this society work.

We`re not all one religion or all one group. We have to live with people who are a little bit different than us. And that require some flexibility. And he`s talking as though, if you just read it in the bible, well that`s it. I mean, there`s a lot of stuff in there. I`m not sure you`d go along with.

SCHULTZ: Well, whatever happened at that day, it`s just doing what your constituents want. I wish we could get back to that.

Congressman Jim McDermott, great to have you with us tonight.

MCDERMOTT: We will.

SCHULTZ: I appreciate your time.

Coming up, more from the Divided Heartland. I sat down with proponents of the Keystone XL. And still ahead, one of the strongest lobbying efforts Nebraska has ever seen. My exclusive interview with the Nebraska State Senator who voted in favor of the Keystone XL.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ABBIE CORNETT, KEYSTONE XL OPPONENT: I think that both sides of the issue had adequate time to debate the issue and put forth both sides of the arguments. And I think that both sides have been well represented.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCHULTZ: But next I`m taking your questions. Ask Ed live just ahead here on the Ed Show on MSNBC. We are right back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

SCHULTZ: Welcome back to our Ask Ed Live segment. I appreciate all the questions.

Now, joining us for our -- joining on the conversation on the social media pages and you can get the question, this is new.

All right, let`s go to Ask Ed Live. Let`s get our first question tonight. It comes from John. "Why does Scott Walker get away with lying and stealing from the people of Wisconsin?"

I have a different question and I`ll get to this in a moment. A state that is so rich in activism, a state that never takes anything sitting down. It just seems to me that they`re awful quiet in the heels of this, after all of these e-mails that have come out. Where are the 14 senators that left the state? Where`s the pressure on the prosecutor to give the public a statement as to how Walker could escape prosecution when he clearly it illustrates that he knew about the secret e-mail detail that was going on, and the system that was going on when he was county executive. I just find that really, really amazing.

Now, why does Scott Walker get away with lying and stealing from the people of Wisconsin? Well, I guess he`s just a master at it. I don`t know. I -- this is amazing to me that he has escaped the prosecution but there is another investigation going on that deals with this recall on the way he ran that campaign.

Our next question is from Christina. "Do you think the GOP can find anyone to run 2016 that isn`t involved in some sort of scandal?"

Well, let`s see, you got Jindal was making a pretty good case for it yesterday, hawking (ph) the microphone and the cameras outside the White House trying to be a kind of a troublemaker. Let`s see, we got Christie, we got Walker, we got Rick Scott, gosh, they got a lot of governors in trouble. But there is one left, John Kasich of Ohio maybe the new rising star when it comes to presidential hopefuls on the right.

All right, and final question tonight comes from, we got three of them, David. "If you lived in the path of the Keystone XL Pipeline, would you let it go through your front yard?"

That`s a heck of a question. First of all, I don`t think these people are going to be able to stop it. They might be able to. So I`ll put myself on the front line in Nebraska. If I live there, no, I wouldn`t want it coming across but I would exhaust every angle to make sure that they would pay me as much as I possibly can get if it did go through so I could go buy a nice place somewhere else.

I`m now on the fence on this issue and I know how people feel and I think this discovery that we have done on this story in Nebraska has changed a lot of folks and it`s working on me.

A lot more coming up in the Ed Show. Stick around.

BERTHA COOMBS, CNBC CORRESPONDENT: I`m Bertha Coombs with your CNBC Market Wrap.

Stocks ending the day a bit in the red. The DOW falling 27 points, the S and P was off two while the NASDAQ shuts five.

Consumer confidence fell this month as expectations about the economy took a hit. Economists were expecting sentiment (ph) to improve.

In the meantime, shares of Home Depot rose nearly four percent today. The company`s earnings beat estimates. It also raised its quarterly dividends. It seems a lot of folks are buying shovels.

And home prices rose a little more than expected in December according to the S and P case-shiller index.

That`s it from CNBC, we`re first in business worldwide.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

SCHULTZ: Welcome back to the Ed Show.

Tonight, we continue our examination of the Keystone XL Pipeline. Our team was on the ground last Friday finding out the facts. This is the Divided Heartland and the American Debate. The Canadian government officials are determined to see this project through. Republican U.S. senators are pressuring President Obama for a decision they`ve written him a letter of retaining to.

And the folks in Nebraska are in the middle of this fight claiming TransCanada, the oil company, is just cash whipping everybody in the path of the proposed pipeline.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SCHULTZ: This oil pipeline already goes through Nebraska, part of a previous project. Proponents of the Keystone say this is evidence. Another major project will only be upside for the region and the country. They feel there is nothing to be concerned about.

BOB HILGER, NEBRASKA LANDOWNER, KEYSTONE XL PROPONENT: I watched them through this whole process, you know, farming here right next to where I was working all the time. How careful they were to been to the pipes and groom the bottom of the trenches so the pipe laid in there just perfect, and the welding, X-ray stuff that went on. I was really confident. I was impressed, very impressed.

SCHULTZ: To your knowledge, what`s the difference between this and the Keystone XL project?

HILGER: Well, for one thing, it goes in a different direction, you know, it`s a shortcut but I believe that as far as pressures and the size of the pipe and so they`re pretty much the same.

SCHULTZ: Similar in operation?

HILGER: Similar, yeah, pumping stations they`ll have to have locations things like that.

SCHULTZ: So what`s your response to those who are concerned about -- they`re coming over the aquifer?

HILGER: I think they`ve alleviated that process, you know, that problem, like kind of going and route it up there in the Sand Hills. We have aquifers all over in this state and they have voice of monitoring this and the oil will come up if we ever have a week and I just don`t anticipate that there`ll be a problem.

SCHULTZ: So, you don`t feel any environmental threat at all?

HILGER: No, I don`t. No, I don`t. And of course I`m raising crops right on top of this pipe and you don`t have all kinds of things where the ground won`t freeze and it`ll be soft there and everything else. Never had a problem.

SCHULTZ: Some of the concern of the antis of the XL Pipeline project is that it`s an international corporation doing how they`ve been to deal with?

HILGER: You know, I see some Toyota cars here, you know, parts who you`re not expect up (ph) are probably coming from oversees. It`s just the way it works in this world nowadays. You know, we take care of other nations and they should take care of us and we work together on these things. A lot of our egg products get shipped overseas so the oil companies probably won`t have market for their products over there too.

SCHULTZ: Are you surprised that the pushback on the pipeline?

HILGER: Yeah, I think it`s political. I think its gotten way out of hand, way too much time that they put into it. Money talks, that`s what`s making it work now in the opposition. I`m just really disappointed that it is -- it`s a black eye on our nation that has taken so long to get this done.

SCHULTZ: To not have it?

HILGER: That`s correct.

SCHULTZ: This pipeline will in-line in 2010. There have been with the company says minor events but it is also the pipeline that had a major spill in North Dakota.

Those who are adamantly opposing the project say this spill in Tioga, North Dakota from another pipeline is a big reason for concern. This oil disaster released over a million gallons and will take at least two years to clean up. It got virtually no national media attention.

They question, what if this happens over the aquifer in Nebraska? They claim it could be devastating.

ART TANDERUP, NEBRASKA LANDOWNER, KEYSTONE XL PIPELINE OPPONENT: There, you know, there`s a vast amount of water right there and in this sand and gravel mixture, if there`s a crack or leak anything like that is going to get into that porous material and it`s going to be in that water very rapidly.

SCHULTZ: So, contamination could be permeating throughout the whole system before people could realize exactly what`s going on?

TANDERUP: Exactly. And somebody`s going to be dead or some live stocks going to be dead and they`re going to wonder what the heck happened here and it`s going to be bad water.

SCHULTZ: Oil officials say they have helped train local volunteer fire departments in case of an oil spill emergency. We were unable to confirm that.

There have been other spills from this pipeline. The most recent in North Dakota was cleaned up in seven to 10 days and oil officials say there was no damage.

Local elected officials in York and Butler County, Nebraska claimed the tax revenue is a big financial help.

GREG JANAK, BUTLER COUNTY SUPERVISOR, DISTRICT 1: I think that it`s been about $19 million boost increase in property tax value to our county because the pipeline has gone through.

SCHULTZ: And what about jobs? There have been estimates the pipeline will bring thousands of jobs in construction along the route. That plays big with union workers in the economy.

RON KAMINSKI, LIUNA, LOCAL: This is the largest construction project that we see on the books with the PLA signed by TransCanada to employ union workers with good paying jobs and benefits for them and their families.

SCHULTZ: As for long term employment, even county officials say the pipeline will bring very few jobs for the long haul once the project is completed.

JANAK: Jobs not so much in the county. They have people that come through the pipeline to service these stations not from our area but from other areas up and down the pipeline.

JIM TARKICK, KEYSTONE XL OPPONENT: It`s known there that there`s not that many jobs, permanent jobs that are associated with this pipeline at all.

KAMINSKI: There is going to be a job for maintenance and upkeep. Is it going to be as many jobs? No. But we`re talking thousands of jobs for people in Nebraska and I think it`s -- well worth it.

SCHULTZ: Still, for some it`s a no brainer.

LEE KLEIN, MADISON, NE COUNTY COMMISSIONER: This is about the safest way to handle products there ever was and I`ll tell you what, the history and the record that the folks from TransCanada have is phenomenal so we`re proud of them, they`ve been really good neighbors to us and we appreciate them being here.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCHULTZ: Coming up, one of the biggest lobbying efforts Nebraska has ever seen.

We`ll have more on how money and influence factor into the debate over the Keystone XL Pipeline. More from the Ed Show Special, Heartland Divided: The American Debate coming up.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JANE KLEEB, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, BOLD NEBRASKA: They`ll form corporation and they are so hell-bent on getting the tar sands to the export market. Find a different path because you`re not coming to our state.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

RUSS GIRLING, CEO, TRANSCANADA: They`ll build the pipeline.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Right.

GIRLING: We`ll be moving that oil and by alternate means which are less -- let`s say Canada is still the safest place to get that imported well. But in fact, we`re actually moving a significant amount of that Bakken crude and as that crude grows, yeah, we would expect that the Keystone Pipeline could play even a larger role in moving that crude all safely to the markets inside the United States.

UNDENTIFIED FEMALE: Right.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCHULTZ: The Keystone XL Pipeline will pump over 800,000 barrels of tar sand oil a day. TransCanada officials now say that 25 percent of that oil in this pipeline will be oil from North Dakota which is sweet crude.

TransCanada also tells us that 90 percent of the land owners in Nebraska have approved the pipeline coming through their land. But late this afternoon, I spoke with an advocacy attorney who`s telling me that that figure isn`t correct. He says of the 275 miles that the pipe would go through Nebraska, 75 of those miles are not committed.

Now the company will not say how much money they have spent in payouts to landowners to make this project happen. And local landowners tell us that it`s just too much to calculate.

When we comeback, how money and influence change Nebraska law to make this happen only to be turned back by a district court judge and slow the project.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

SCHULTZ: Welcome back to the Ed Show.

For the Keystone XL Pipeline to happen it was inevitable, some things had to change. TransCanada was so determined to see this project through. They were willing to support changes to the Nebraska Constitution to make the Pipeline a reality.

A recent legal ruling has the pipeline construction now at a standstill. That lawsuit was brought by three landowners, everyday citizens in Nebraska just fighting for their property rights.

This is almost David and Goliath in the environmental fight for America.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SCHULTZ: It`s one of the strongest lobbying efforts ever seen in Nebraska politics. TransCanada spent hundreds of thousands of dollars for the proposed extension of the Keystone XL Pipeline in an effort to change legislative control.

KLEEB: They were elected to represent us. They we`re elected to represent our families. Their salaries paid by our tax dollars not TransCanada. And TransCanada had no right to come in to our state and not only threaten them at domain but start to change our state constitution?

RANDY THOMPSON, FILED PIPELINE LAWSUIT: When our politicians decide to trade away our property rights. You know, we need to step up and do something about it.

SCHULTZ: Legislative action gave Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman the executive authority to approve the pipeline. Former Nebraska State Senator Abbie Cornett who was in the legislature at the time of the vote talked about the power shift.

CORNETT: There was heavy lobbying on both sides.

KLEEB: Over a million dollars, TransCanada has spent lobbying our state senators. We have UniCare (ph), well it`s not many, there`s 49 state senators and they have spent over a million dollars. They brought up every single lobbying firm except one. So, none of us could hire lobbyist to kind of be our voice.

TARKICK: This group right here that we`re -- that are here, you know, we`re not lobbyist. Those people out there there`s no lobbyist, there`s no people getting paid to be here. We are on our own time.

KEVIN GRAVES, KEYSTONE XL OPPONENT: I think that this information is largely stopped because they figured out it doesn`t work. They`re on a new a better tactics now.

SCHULTZ: Abbie Cornett and other Nebraskans have no problem with the way the legislator gave Governor Heineman all the power.

CORNETT: At that time, we felt that the Governor should have the responsibility for deciding whether the pipeline came to the state or not.

SCHULTZ: OK. So, what was the purpose of the public service commission at that point then? That was one of their major duties.

CORNETT: It was, at that time they just felt that it was a better decision to have the governor determine whether we were going to have the pipeline or not.

SCHULTZ: And when that law was up for discussion, was there a conversation about it possibly being unconstitutional?

CORNETT: I don`t remember or knew that conversation. No.

SCHULTZ: Did you vote on it?

CORNETT: I did.

SCHULTZ: And it was a no that you can`t remember any conversation about it being unconstitutional?

CORNETT: No one spoke to me about the issue that being unconstitutional at that time.

THOMPSON: The constitution says we have property rights. And I have yet to see the asterisk next to that that says these rights are only yours until a big corporation wants it.

SHANNON GRAVES, KEYSTONE XL OPPONENT: This is just going to turn the United States into an alleyway for a foreign product going from one foreign country to the open market, straight down through the middle of our world and our lives and our livelihoods.

SCHULTZ: When you were in the legislature, was there a lot of conversation about eminent domain that landowners were concerned that they just didn`t want this structure in their land they felt powerless?

CORNETT: There were a few landowners that came in and discuss that issue. The majority of landowners though in Nebraska, I believe well over 90 percent voluntarily entered into contracts with TransCanada for the pipeline. But there were discussions about that. Yes.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCHULTZ: We`ll continue our special series "Divided Heartland, The American Divide" tomorrow with an interview with members of the Rosebud Sioux Tribe. Their land falls on the path of the proposed pipeline. I spoke with Former Nebraska State Senator Abbie Cornett about the concerns that the tribal members had.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SCHULTZ: We`re there concerns and conversation about the Native Americans who claim that this Pipeline would be going over some culturally sacred grounds?

CORNETT: I never was contacted by any of the tribal leaders. And that I know that was a point was brought up by one of the groups but none of the tribes ever spoke to me about it.

SCHULTZ: Did you notice some are lobbying about their concerns at that time?

CORNETT: Constantly. We`ve had quite a bit lobbying of the issue of light clay which is up behind the Indian reservation. We`ve had issues in regards to cross deputization issues in regards to taxation for cigarettes. So quite a bit of -- the tribes are reactive.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCHULTZ: Tomorrow, we`ll take you live to the Rosebud Sioux Reservation in South Dakota for a compelling part of the pipeline debate. They are concerned about safety, they`re concerned about the environment, and they also say that the pipeline would be very close to some culturally sensitive land.

Part of the safety they`re concerned of is that there`s just not much law enforcement up in that area. And God forbid if something were to happen they`re afraid of some kind of a possible confrontation. That`s story comes to MSNBC and Ed Show tomorrow night from South Dakota.

That`s Ed Show. I`m Ed Schultz.

Politics Nation with Reverend Al Sharpton starts right now. Good evening Rev.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

Document EDSHOW0020140226ea2p00001

current
Bank overtime case to test class action sampling

Scott Graham sgraham@alm.com      
1,054 words
24 February 2014
The Recorder
RECRDR
1
Volume 138; Issue 8
English
Copyright 2014 LexisNexis, a Division of Reed Elsevier, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

Business interests looking to rein in wage-and-hour litigation in California may have found an ideal vehicle.

Next month the California Supreme Court will hear arguments in Duran v. U.S. Bank, in which a class of 260 bank officers won $15 million for unpaid overtime. The judgment was based largely on testimony from a random sample of 20 plaintiffs, along with supporting statistical analysis from an expert witness.

U.S. Bank and a host of amici curiae say the trial judge relied on the same kind of "trial by formula" that the U.S. Supreme Court criticized in its 2011 class action ruling Wal-Mart v. Dukes . They're urging the California justices to import Wal-Mart's principles to California law and even extend them.

The plaintiffs employment bar acknowledges that the use of sampling and statistics "stands at the crossroads of this case." But these are reasonable, time-tested tools for managing sprawling class litigation, argues Kimberly Kralowec for the California Employment Lawyers Association.

"The alternative is individual joinder, or calling hundreds of class members to the stand," she wrote in an amicus brief. "No principle of 'due process' compels California to operate its court system that way."

The Duran case dates to 2001, when Edward Wynne of the Wynne Law Firm in Greenbrae filed a complaint challenging U.S. Bank's "lucrative, repressive and unlawful business practices." Wynne alleged that the bank was misclassifying its business banking officers—agents who sell loans to small businesses—as outside sales personnel exempt from overtime. He moved for class certification in 2005, submitting declarations from 34 current and former officers who said they worked mostly inside branch offices.

U.S. Bank's counsel at San Francisco's Carothers DiSante & Freudenberger responded with declarations from 75 other officers who said they worked mostly from the outside. Even the four named plaintiffs, the bank argued, had admitted they qualified for the exemption.

Wynne substituted in two new name plaintiffs, and Judge Robert Freedman of Alameda County Superior Court certified the class, finding that common questions of law and fact predominated over individual legal or factual disputes.

U.S. Bank continued to press its argument for individualized treatment, proposing to divide class members into groups of 20 to 30 for evidentiary hearings . Wynne argued the bank had no due process right to litigate affirmative defenses against every single class member.

Freedman agreed and instead chose to take live testimony from 20 representative class members.

But e ven scaled down, the trial consumed 41 days. Ultimately, Freedman found U.S. Bank liable. Based on the limited trial testimony, plaintiffs' expert estimated all class members' average weekly overtime at 11.87 hours, with a margin of error of 5.14 hours. Freedman accepted that calculation and awarded $9 million, plus $6 million in interest.

The court of appeal reversed, saying the 43 percent margin of error on damages was unacceptable, and that Freedman should have considered the 75 declarations when determining liability. "We have never advocated that the expediency afforded by class action litigation should take precedence over a defendant's right to substantive and procedural due process," Justice Robert Dondero wrote.

Duran is one of the few misclassification cases actually tried to judgment in California, and it has exposed shortcomings in the sampling approach, Carothers DiSante partner Alison Tsao argues in her brief to the California Supreme Court.

"Although plaintiffs never proved misclassification nor overtime hours for every class member, the court awarded recovery to all class members, averaging over $57,000 per person," she wrote. That includes a total of almost $6 million awarded to the 75 declarants who indicated they were properly classified.

Horvitz & Levy partners Robert Wright and Felix Shafir, who are representing the U.S. Chamber of Commerce as amicus curiae, say the case gives the Supreme Court the opportunity to adopt limits on class actions set out in Wal-Mart v. Dukes. That decision held that plaintiffs could not use statistical evidence of pay and promotions to certify a gender-discrimination class of 1.5 million female employees.

"The Wal-Mart case really signaled that you can't use this trial by formula" when it cuts into a defendant's due process right to present a defense, Shafir said.

California courts seem to be skirting the issue. Two years ago, state Supreme Court Justice Kathryn Mickle Werdegar wrote a concurring opinion in Brinker Restaurant v. Superior Court that said representative testimony, surveys and statistical analysis remain "available as tools to render manageable determinations of the extent of liability." But only Justice Goodwin Liu signed her concurrence, leaving open the question of whether a majority of the court agrees.

In the Ninth Circuit, Judge William Fletcher wrote last year in Wang v. Chinese Daily News that in light of Wal-Mart, "employers are also entitled to litigate any individual affirmative defenses they may have to class members' claims." Following a petition for rehearing, that language was removed from the opinion.

Plaintiffs, meanwhile, argue that a decision siding with U.S. Bank would "eviscerate" most class actions. "Nearly every defendant in every class action claims that liability depends on the 'individual circumstances' of the class members," Oakland appellate specialist Ellen Lake wrote in her brief for the plaintiffs. Lake and Impact Fund founder Brad Seligman, who litigated Wal-Mart, joined Wynne for the Supreme Court appeal, though Seligman has since been appointed to Alameda County Superior Court.

Amicus attorney Kralowec, of San Francisco's Kralowec Law Group, dismisses the "trial by formula" objection as a "catchphrase found in Dukes."

Wal-Mart v. Dukes was a Title VII case, not a misclassification case, Kralowec wrote in her amicus brief . The California Supreme Court should stick with its own 2004 ruling in Sav-on Drug Stores v. Superior Court, which endorsed the use of statistical and sampling evidence.

"As Sav-on and many other decisions make clear, the trial court has broad discretion in selecting appropriate management tools and deciding which of the available tools is best-suited to the particular class proceeding," Kralowec wrote. "Once selected by the trial court, these management tools are not optional for the litigants."

Contact the reporter at sgraham@alm.com.      

Document RECRDR0020140224ea2o00003



Palm Beach Gardens law office to merge with larger firm

Shaun Bevan      
334 words
12 February 2014
South Florida Business Journal Online
SFLBJO
English
© 2014 American City Business Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.      

Palm Beach Garden's Leopold Law will merge with Washington, D.C.-based Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC, the firms announced Wednesday.

Attorneys Theodore J. Leopold and Leslie M. Kroeger have been named Cohen Milstein partners. They join the firm along with Florida attorneys Wallace B. McCall, Diana L. Martin, and Adam J. Langino.

THE LIST: Top 25 Florida Law Firms

Cohen Milstein and Leopold Law have a long relationship of litigating citizens' rights cases. One case where the two firms have worked together include Love v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., the regional class action gender discrimination complaint lodged against the giant retailer in 2012.

"We are pleased that this outstanding law firm will be joining Cohen Milstein. Both firms share a common commitment to providing assistance to victims of widespread and major fraud and abuse and to curbing the conduct that caused that harm," said Cohen Milstein Partner Joseph M. Sellers, chair of the firm's Executive Committee, in a news release.

In a statement about the merger, Leopold said there has always been synergy between Leopold and Cohen Milstein and that he looked forward to growing opportunities that can "further champion the rights of individuals and groups that are challenging harmful corporate practices."

RELATED CONTENT:  Attorney discipline: 11 in South Florida punished

With the merger, Cohen Milstein now has 80 attorneys.

"This merger is an enormous opportunity for Cohen Milstein to expand its practice areas," said Cohen Milstein Managing Partner Steven J. Toll in a news release. "We are thrilled to bring on an attorney of Ted Leopold's stature, and with the addition of Ted, Leslie Kroeger and their colleagues, we continue to further build upon the services we provide to consumers, investors and others victimized by corporate misconduct."

Did you find this article useful? Why not subscribe to South Florida Business Journal for more articles and leads? Visit bizjournals.com/subscribe or call 1-866-853-3661.

Document SFLBJO0020140212ea2c0008e



Leopold Law Firm to Merge with Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC

856 words
12 February 2014
08:00 AM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2014.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.    

WASHINGTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Feb 12, 2014--Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC, a premier national plaintiffs’ firm, and Leopold Law, a leading national and Florida statewide firm based in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., both of whom specialize in complex litigation, today announced a merger.

The merger will further extend Cohen Milstein’s national presence in the legal arena with the addition of robust product liability, managed care abuse, major catastrophic injury, and commercial contingency litigation practices and will position Cohen Milstein as one of the largest, strongest and most diverse plaintiffs’ firms in the nation.

Theodore J. Leopold and Leslie M. Kroeger have been named Cohen Milstein partners. They join the firm along with Florida attorneys Wallace B. McCall, Diana L. Martin and Adam J. Langino.

Cohen Milstein and Leopold Law have a long relationship of litigating complex cases that have a significant impact on the rights of citizens to obtain access to justice. Cases where the two firms have worked together include Love v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., the regional class action gender discrimination complaint lodged against the giant retailer in 2012.

“We are pleased that this outstanding law firm will be joining Cohen Milstein. Both firms share a common commitment to providing assistance to victims of widespread and major fraud and abuse and to curbing the conduct that caused that harm,” said Cohen Milstein Partner Joseph M. Sellers, Chair of the Firm’s Executive Committee.

Leopold said of the merger: “This is a partnership built on a shared vision of fighting injustice for plaintiffs through innovative litigation strategy and effective trial work. There has always been a synergy between Leopold and Cohen Milstein and we look forward to growing opportunities that can further champion the rights of individuals and groups that are challenging harmful corporate practices.”

Benchmark cases successfully litigated by Leopold and his firm include those that led to significant improvements in automotive safety, including safer child seatbelt restraint systems, SUV stability and handling, safer tires, and to significant changes in the managed care industry that resulted in greater access to care and treatment for catastrophically ill children and adults. Recoveries include a $131 million verdict against an automobile company, which was the eighth largest jury award in 2010 and the ninth biggest U.S. verdict against an auto company in U.S. history. Leopold’s work has been featured in the National Law Journal’s Top Cases of the year and he was nominated for “Trial Lawyer of the Year” by the Public Justice Foundation for the ground breaking unveiling of rampant managed care abuse. The firm was recently selected as one of U.S. News – Best Lawyers® “Best Law Firms.”

“This merger is an enormous opportunity for Cohen Milstein to expand its practice areas,” said Cohen Milstein Managing Partner Steven J. Toll. “We are thrilled to bring on an attorney of Ted Leopold’s stature, and with the addition of Ted, Leslie Kroeger and their colleagues, we continue to further build upon the services we provide to consumers, investors and others victimized by corporate misconduct.”

Cohen Milstein has been called a “class-action powerhouse” and “the most effective law firm in the U.S. for lawsuits with a strong social and political component” by the national business and legal media. Recent successes include a landmark $1 billion antitrust verdict against Dow Chemical Company over urethane price-fixing, and the largest class action settlement pertaining to the fraudulent sale of mortgage-backed securities – a $500 million recovery for purchasers of Countrywide mortgage-backed securities. Cohen Milstein also orchestrated the historic settlement with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) over discrimination in farm loan lending to Native American farmers and ranchers – Keepseagle v. Vilsack – that resulted in $760 million in monetary awards and major reforms in USDA’s Farm Loan Program policies and practices.

With the merger, Cohen Milstein now has 80 attorneys. Practice areas include Antitrust, Civil Rights and Employment, Securities Fraud/Investor Protection, Product Liability, Commercial Litigation, Consumer Protection, Employee Benefits, Ethics and Fiduciary Counseling, Managed Care Abuse, Public Client, Major Catastrophic Injury, Human Rights, and Whistleblower/False Claims Act.

For more information about Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC, visit www.cohenmilstein.com.

Founded in 1969, Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC is a national leader in plaintiff class action lawsuits and litigation. As one of the premier firms in the country handling major complex cases, Cohen Milstein, with 80 attorneys, has offices in Washington, D.C., New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, and Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. For more information, visit http://www.cohenmilstein.com  or call 202-408-4600.

Editors’ Note: Photos Available

CONTACT: Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC

Pamela Avery, 402-305-0799

pam@turnerstrategies.com

or

Natasha Diemer, 561-515-1400

ndiemer@cohenmilstein.com

KEYWORD: UNITED STATES NORTH AMERICA DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FLORIDA

INDUSTRY KEYWORD: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES LEGAL

SOURCE: Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC

Copyright Business Wire 2014

PUB: 02/12/2014 09:00 AM/DISC: 02/12/2014 09:00 AM

http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20140212005445/en 

Document APRS000020140212ea2c002o6



Target Loses On Loyalty; Walmart Gains

565 words
3 February 2014
10:22 AM
MediaPost.com
MPC
English
Copyright 2014. MediaPost.com      

When it comes to building and maintaining loyalty, retail brands had a tough time last year, according to the 2014 Brand Keys Customer Loyalty Engagement Index (CLEI), now in its 18th year.

Hit by its massive data breach at the height of the Christmas selling season, Target may be the most obvious example. But it's not just because of the theft, explains Robert Passikoff, Brand Keys founder and president. It's also the result of faltering brand positioning, he tells Marketing Daily.

Target was already vulnerable, "since backing away from its cheap chic marketing focus, and shifting to the 'We've got everything and it's always on sale' approach. That just sets it up against the juggernaut of Walmart. Then when you feel one is less careful with your credit card, why not switch? When consumers have relatively comparable options, they have more room for second thoughts."

Walmart continues to dominate the discount category and inspire great loyalty, despite the "love/hate relationship many people have with it." It's not that consumers are unaware or don't care that Walmart is so frequently accused of discrimination, for example, or unfair labor practices. "People do believe in equal pay, and know glass ceilings are real. It's just that there is a difference between what you feel is right, and what drives engagement and expectations in the category," he says.

"Most Americans don't want soccer balls that have been sewn together by children, in a building that's about to burn down. But they do want soccer balls that cost $4.99."

Passikoff says he believes Target will be able to repair the loyalty hit its taken, "but not this quarter or next, especially when Target is interchangeable with other brands. I'm predicting it will take nine months. Consumers will say, 'Yes, you can earn my trust back. But meanwhile, I've got plenty of other places to shop.'"

Among department stores, he says shifting value propositions have prompted a kind of "culling, and we're seeing Sears and JC Penney in this death spiral of same-store sales." Big changes are difficult for any store brand to achieve, "since they are all operating on razor-thin margins. So basically, the quality level stays the same."

Within department stores, the value that seems to resonate most with consumers at this point is brand buzz. "Macy's seems to do a good job with that, which explains why they are ranked first," he says. Kohl's, which came in third, after regional player Dillard's, does well in both emotional engagement and the concept of value for the dollar.

Among specialty retailers, what's notable is the strength the top three brands — Victoria's Secret, the Gap and Abercrombie & Fitch — showed, relative to the rest of the pack, "and then there's huge drop-off." J. Crew, last year's winner, "has gone very bland," and with H&M, has sunk toward the bottom of the heap.

Amazon retained its No. 1 rank among online retailers, followed by eBay, Overstock and Zappos. In the home-improvement category, the Home Depot earned the top spot, "but overall, it was very close to both Ace and Lowe's, which in No. 2 and 3." Lowe's lost, he says, on a weaker score for knowledgeable service.

Document MPC0000020140203ea23000bg



Targets Loses On Loyalty; Walmart Gains

565 words
3 February 2014
10:22 AM
MediaPost.com
MPC
English
Copyright 2014. MediaPost.com      

When it comes to building and maintaining loyalty, retail brands had a tough time last year, according to the 2014 Brand Keys Customer Loyalty Engagement Index (CLEI), now in its 18th year.

Hit by its massive data breach at the height of the Christmas selling season, Target may be the most obvious example. But it's not just because of the theft, explains Robert Passikoff, Brand Keys founder and president. It's also the result of faltering brand positioning, he tells Marketing Daily.

Target was already vulnerable, "since backing away from its cheap chic marketing focus, and shifting to the 'We've got everything and it's always on sale' approach. That just sets it up against the juggernaut of Walmart. Then when you feel one is less careful with your credit card, why not switch? When consumers have relatively comparable options, they have more room for second thoughts."

Walmart continues to dominate the discount category and inspire great loyalty, despite the "love/hate relationship many people have with it." It's not that consumers are unaware or don't care that Walmart is so frequently accused of discrimination, for example, or unfair labor practices. "People do believe in equal pay, and know glass ceilings are real. It's just that there is a difference between what you feel is right, and what drives engagement and expectations in the category," he says.

"Most Americans don't want soccer balls that have been sewn together by children, in a building that's about to burn down. But they do want soccer balls that cost $4.99."

Passikoff says he believes Target will be able to repair the loyalty hit its taken, "but not this quarter or next, especially when Target is interchangeable with other brands. I'm predicting it will take nine months. Consumers will say, 'Yes, you can earn my trust back. But meanwhile, I've got plenty of other places to shop.'"

Among department stores, he says shifting value propositions have prompted a kind of "culling, and we're seeing Sears and JC Penney in this death spiral of same-store sales." Big changes are difficult for any store brand to achieve, "since they are all operating on razor-thin margins. So basically, the quality level stays the same."

Within department stores, the value that seems to resonate most with consumers at this point is brand buzz. "Macy's seems to do a good job with that, which explains why they are ranked first," he says. Kohl's, which came in third, after regional player Dillard's, does well in both emotional engagement and the concept of value for the dollar.

Among specialty retailers, what's notable is the strength the top three brands — Victoria's Secret, the Gap and Abercrombie & Fitch — showed, relative to the rest of the pack, "and then there's huge drop-off." J. Crew, last year's winner, "has gone very bland," and with H&M, has sunk toward the bottom of the heap.

Amazon retained its No. 1 rank among online retailers, followed by eBay, Overstock and Zappos. In the home-improvement category, the Home Depot earned the top spot, "but overall, it was very close to both Ace and Lowe's, which in No. 2 and 3." Lowe's lost, he says, on a weaker score for knowledgeable service.

Document MPC0000020140203ea230008j



ezra-klein
This Walmart worker went from temp to store manager. Here's why that's so tough. ; The retail industry wants you to think that everybody can work their way up. Reality is a little less ideal.

By Lydia DePillis      
1,680 words
31 January 2014
Washington Post.com
WPCOM
English
Copyright 2014, The Washington Post Co.    All Rights Reserved.      

A few days ago, the National Retail Federation posted a video on its Web site sketching out the career of Claudine McKenzie, a manager of a Walmart in Sunrise, Fla. It's an inspirational tale: The daughter of poor Caribbean immigrants started out as a temporary worker when she was 20 years old and three months pregnant. Over the next 17 years, she had two kids, put herself through college and a master's degree program, and worked her way up to a six-figure salary. After McKenzie went on television to advertise that her store was hiring temp workers for the holidays, the NRF reached out to see if she'd want to tell her life story on her employer's behalf.

The video is only 2 minutes long, which leaves out a lot. Contacted by phone, McKenzie filled in the gaps, by way of explaining why all Walmart associates can advance themselves too.

"People need to know the other side of the story, with all the negative things in the news," she said in an interview. "We don't publicize the good things. People see the bad things, and they don't apply. When we don't publicize these things, we're actually taking away some of these opportunities. They won't apply, and start out, and be the next store manager, and be the next me."

It may be true that anyone with McKenzie's gumption and drive can get ahead -- and even that many Walmart associates do the same. But there are also structural reasons why most Americans don't. Let's walk through her story and see how representative it is of the country at large (the quotes are a mix of the video transcript and an interview).

"I started Walmart 17 years ago as a sales clerk in Miramar, Florida. I was 3 months pregnant with my son. I had no idea what I would do for a source of income. At the time I was enrolled in school, needed to get a job and care for my son. I moved on to department manager in boys, infants, and girls. When I went out to have my son, Walmart provided insurance and short-term disability. It was amazing, the support that I had from the company."

How easy is it to have a kid as an hourly Walmart associate? According to a spokesman, the company offers a program called "Life with Baby," which is "an initiative designed to give associates and their spouses personalized tools and education to help them have healthier pregnancies and infants." As far as maternity leave, you can only get it if you bought disability insurance, which McKenzie did because she knew she would soon have a baby. Salaried employees get 90 days of maternity leave, and new fathers get 14 days of paternity leave. Nationwide, the situation is similar: Only 11 percent of private-sector workers have access to paid parental leave.

McKenzie's story is also remarkable because she was a single mom, with no partner to support her child, though her mother moved down from New Jersey to take care of McKenzie's first son while she worked. She started out at minimum wage of $5.75 an hour, got $7.95 an hour as a supervisor, $9 as a department manager, and a base annual salary of $35,000 as an assistant manager. Despite having to support a family on a very low income, she says she didn't take any form of public assistance. But lots of her colleagues do: In many states, Walmart tends to be the employer with the most workers receiving Medicaid and food stamps. That's largely because of its size; dollar stores and fast-food restaurants often have a higher proportion of their employees on public assistance. Still, rock-bottom wages make it difficult to pass up government help.

Now, as a store manager, she's doing really well.

"When you think of doctors and lawyers, that's what we make. Six figures."

That's actually rare. According to a salary analysis from the career Web site Bright.com, only 10 percent of people with Walmart on their r sum s ever make more than $70,000 a year, which is not the worst of all companies, but is still low. But McKenzie says everybody can move on up if they work hard enough.

"The thing is, working for Walmart is what you make of it. If you want it, there is so much growth in the company. People who don't grow at Walmart, it's because they're comfortable in their jobs, and they don't want to go further. The people who complain the most are the ones who are not going after what they truly want. You can't sit back and ask for something unless you've really earned it. If you want more money, then apply for more money when jobs open up. When nobody else wanted to do something, I said, 'I'll do it!' Every time there was an extra day, I said, 'I'll work it!' Oh, my god, they would have to send me home, because I would volunteer for everything. They're a large company -- there's always something for everyone to do; people just don't want to do it."

Can everyone truly just get a better-paying job within the company if they're unhappy making minimum wage? Walmart says it promotes 160,000 associates each year and that 75 percent of its managers started out as hourly employees. That's laudable. But, at the same time, not everybody can get promoted to a job that makes a middle-class salary. For example, there are only eight assistant managers per store, with a base salary of $35,000; plus four shift managers and one store manager, who make more. That comes out to about 62,500 positions, or less than five percent of the company's 1.3 million associates. There are obviously other positions along the Walmart supply chain, but here's the point: The pyramid has a very broad base, and if all associates are inherently competing with one another for better-paid positions, some of them won't get far.

So, what about those who do still make the minimum wage?

"If the federal minimum wage goes up, our company doesn't have a problem complying with it. If it goes up, we go up. And with the increase in a minimum wage, you retain good people. The higher people get paid, the more satisfied they are. But you have to look at Walmart's overall benefits. If you add all that up, the compensation far exceeds most employers out there."

That's a significant admission in itself -- the National Retail Federation, which made the video, staunchly opposes raising the minimum wage. As for the claim that benefits make up for it, Walmart's package does offer some advantages, like a six percent 401(k) match and an array of health-care coverage options (here's a PDF summary). But the company says only that "more than half" of associates are enrolled in the plan, which doesn't come anywhere close to industry-leading Costco. CNN suggested that many Walmart associates can't afford it.

Then there's the female empowerment message.

"One of the things I love as a store manager is the influence I have on other young ladies. As a minority female, I serve as an inspiration to other minority females. My story shows that they have the ability to be whatever they want."

It's worth remembering the class-action lawsuit filed against Walmart for gender-based discrimination in promotions. Though the suit was ultimately thrown out, that's 150,000 people who disagreed with McKenzie enough to put their names on a legal filing.

Now, how about education?

"The company's enabled me to go back to school. I currently have a bachelor's degree and am working on my master's. Walmart has supported me and given me all of that .it wasn't that I had to, because at this point I was making really good money. But I decided that going back to school was a personal accomplishment of mine. And I took one class at a time."

The company offers tuition assistance for classes at American Public University, an accredited, for-profit, online-only college, as well scholarships for other institutions. McKenzie picked American Intercontinental University, and paid her own tuition while working. That's also great -- but don't forget that income inequality and racial disparities are still huge drivers of educational inequity, which is part of the reason why not everybody transcends their station.

McKenzie also defended the company's enduring resistance to union organizing.

"I don't think our associates should have to go to an outside source to speak for them. I should be able to speak for me and get the same result. We're not against anything, but we feel like our associates have the right to speak for themselves."

Earlier this month, the National Labor Relations Board charged Walmart with retaliating against some of the workers who went on strike in 100 cities across the country before the holidays. It appears that quite a few workers don't feel like their individual voices are being heard.

To be sure, McKenzie beat the odds. That's wonderful, and it's fair for Walmart associates to take inspiration from her example. But it's not proof that all our ladders to opportunity, as the White House calls them, are all in good working order. The United States still has an economic mobility problem, after all -- and it's worst in the areas where Walmart's presence is most felt.

Document WPCOM00020140131ea1v004pk



CEOs Pledge Support for Obama's Effort to Help Long-Term Unemployed -- WSJ Blog

By Colleen McCain Nelson      
715 words
31 January 2014
11:59 AM
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.      

Updated with the announcement and comments.

President Barack Obama said Friday that he wants to connect ready-to-work Americans with ready-to-be-filled jobs as he announced that more than 300 U.S. companies have signed a pledge aimed at halting hiring practices that discriminate against the long-term unemployed.

After meeting with nearly two dozen CEOs and executives at the White House, the president detailed his plans to put those who have been out of work for months back in jobs, and he called on businesses to adopt best practices for recruiting and hiring the long-term jobless. Mr. Obama also signed a presidential memorandum directing the federal government to adopt these practices to ensure that people who are out of work receive a fair shot in the federal hiring process.

"Statistically, the long- term unemployed are oftentimes slightly better educated, some cases better qualified than folks who just lost their job, " Mr. Obama said. "Just because you've been out of work for a while does not mean that you are not a hard worker."

Saying that giving up on those without jobs would create a drag on the economy that could not be tolerated, the president committed to making a serious dent in the long-term unemployment problem.

Gene Sperling, director of the president's National Economic Council, said that 21 of the 50 largest companies in the country -- and a total of more than 300 businesses -- have committed to make hiring practices inclusive and to remove barriers to employing the long-term jobless. Employers such as AT&T Inc., Citigroup Inc., Ford Motor Company, PepsiCo Inc., Wal-Mart Stores Inc., and Xerox Corp have agreed to the pledge. News Corp, which publishes the Wall Street Journal, was among the companies that signed the pledge.

The companies "all took very seriously what it meant to sign on to a pledge publicly like this," Mr. Sperling said. He added that their commitments were not an admission that they had done anything wrong but a promise to use best practices going forward.

But what impact the voluntary pledge might have remains an open question. Mr. Sperling couldn't provide an estimate of how many people might be helped by this effort. And administration officials haven't spelled out plans to enforce the companies' commitments or monitor progress.

The president said that this partnership with companies seeks to break the negative cycle for the unemployed, as people who have been without work the longest often encounter an increasing number of obstacles.

"It's a cruel catch-22 -- the longer you're unemployed, the more unemployable you may seem, Mr. Obama said.

The White House pointed to a study showing that those who have been out of work for seven months send out an average of 35 resumes to receive just one job interview; those unemployed for one month schedule one interview for every 10 resumes they send.

The unemployment rate has fallen to 6.7%, but large numbers of people have left the work force. Millions have been out of work for more than six months. Benefits for the long-term jobless lapsed last month, and lawmakers have not heeded Mr. Obama's call to extend the expanded unemployment program.

"While Congress decides whether or not it's going to extend unemployment insurance for these Americans, we're going to go ahead and act," Mr. Obama said.

The president's announcement Friday is just the latest in a series of unilateral steps that the White House hopes will underscore its goal of making this a year of action. But some of the presidential memoranda have been decidedly modest and have highlighted the limits of what the president can do alone. Republicans also have criticized what they view as an attempt to sidestep Congress.

Administration officials said the White House was using every tool at its disposal, and this effort to work with employers accomplished some things that congressional action could not.

Follow @wsjwashington on Twitter


 
 More at The Wall Street Journal's Washington Wire blog, http://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

January 31, 2014 12:59 ET (17:59 GMT)

Document DJDN000020140131ea1v00309



CNN exclusive: Obama says Walmart, Apple, others to help jobless

By Sherisse Pham CNN      
625 words
30 January 2014
06:47 PM
CNN Wire
CNNWR
English
Copyright 2014 Cable News Network. All Rights Reserved.      

7:45 p.m.: updates with obama and ceos on friday

(CNN) -- The White House has secured commitments from some of the nation's largest companies for a plan to boost hiring of the long-term unemployed.

"What we have done is to gather together 300 companies, just to start with, including, some of the top 50 companies in the country, companies like Walmart, and Apple, Ford and others, to say let's establish best practices," President Barack Obama told CNN Chief Washington Correspondent Jake Tapper in an exclusive interview.

"Because they've been unemployed ... so long, folks are looking at that gap in the resume and they're weeding them out before these folks even get a chance for an interview," said Obama.

As the economy slowly recovers from the recession, the number of workers who have not found a job for at least six months or more has grown.

"Do not screen people out of the hiring process just because they've been out of work for a long time," said the President.

He will make the formal announcement on Friday. He's convening CEOs and others who have committed to the plan.

The move is in line with Obama's State of the Union push to take executive action on initiatives that he does not need Congress to accomplish.

The President proposed in 2011 that Congress prohibit discrimination based on unemployment at companies with more than 15 workers. Bills were introduced in the Senate and House, but little progress was made.

"Will we be able to have more of an impact if we can get Congress, for example, to pass a minimum wage law that applies to everybody, as opposed to me just through executive order making sure that, folks who are contractors to the federal government have to pay a minimum wage? Absolutely," said Obama.

On Tuesday, he promised to take action raising the minimum wage for government contract workers to $10.10 per hour.

The nation's unemployment rate fell to 6.7% in December, but the drop came mainly from workers leaving the labor force.

Roughly 4 million people are considered long-term unemployed, those out of work for 27 weeks or more. Efforts backed by Obama to extend a federal program providing jobless benefits to that group fell flat this month in Congress.

Obama added that his administration will continue reaching out to the House and Senate on key initiatives.

"But I'm not going to wait for them," the President said.

Critics have said Obama's push for executive action illustrates diminished expectations. But he stressed key accomplishments achieved through Congress during his five years in office, including health care and education.

"In no way are my expectations diminished, or my ambitions diminished. But what is obviously true, is we've got divided government right now. The House Republicans, in particular, have had difficulty rallying around any agenda, much less mine. And in that kind of environment, what I don't want is the American people to think that the only way for us to make big change is through legislation," Obama said.

In a separate interview, Rep. Paul Ryan, the 2012 Republican vice presidential candidate and a potential White House hopeful next time around, told Tapper that Obama appears to be circumventing the Constitution with an "end run" around Congress.

"If there's something he thinks needs to be changed in law, then he needs to make the case to Congress," Ryan said, noting that there is an "effective way" to use the bully pulpit "to encourage good things."

CNN's Adam Aigner-Treworgy and Dana Davidsen contributed to this report.

Document CNNWR00020140131ea1v000dy



CNN exclusive: Obama says Walmart, Apple, others to help jobless

By Sherisse Pham CNN      
601 words
30 January 2014
04:40 PM
CNN Wire
CNNWR
English
Copyright 2014 Cable News Network. All Rights Reserved.      

5:40 p.m.: updates with unemployment figures, paul ryan interview

(CNN) -- The White House has secured commitments from some of the nation's largest companies for a plan to boost hiring of the long-term unemployed.

"What we have done is to gather together 300 companies, just to start with, including, some of the top 50 companies in the country, companies like Walmart, and Apple, Ford and others, to say let's establish best practices," President Barack Obama told CNN Chief Washington Correspondent Jake Tapper in an exclusive interview.

"Because they've been unemployed ... so long, folks are looking at that gap in the resume and they're weeding them out before these folks even get a chance for an interview," said Obama.

As the economy slowly recovers from the recession, the number of workers who have not found a job for at least six months or more has grown.

"Do not screen people out of the hiring process just because they've been out of work for a long time," said the President.

He will make the formal announcement on Friday.

The move is in line with Obama's State of the Union push to take executive action on initiatives that he does not need Congress to accomplish.

The President proposed in 2011 that Congress prohibit discrimination based on unemployment at companies with more than 15 workers. Bills were introduced in the Senate and House, but little progress was made.

"Will we be able to have more of an impact if we can get Congress, for example, to pass a minimum wage law that applies to everybody, as opposed to me just through executive order making sure that, folks who are contractors to the federal government have to pay a minimum wage? Absolutely," said Obama.

On Tuesday, he promised to take action raising the minimum wage for government contract workers to $10.10 per hour.

The nation's unemployment rate fell to 6.7% in December, but the drop came mainly from workers leaving the labor force.

Roughly 4 million people are considered long-term unemployed, those out of work for 27 weeks or more. Efforts backed by Obama to extend a federal program providing jobless benefits to that group fell flat this month in Congress.

Obama added that his administration will continue reaching out to the House and Senate on key initiatives.

"But I'm not going to wait for them," the President said.

Critics have said Obama's push for executive action illustrates diminished expectations. But he stressed key accomplishments achieved through Congress during his five years in office, including health care and education.

"In no way are my expectations diminished, or my ambitions diminished. But what is obviously true, is we've got divided government right now. The House Republicans, in particular, have had difficulty rallying around any agenda, much less mine. And in that kind of environment, what I don't want is the American people to think that the only way for us to make big change is through legislation," Obama said.

In a separate interview, Rep. Paul Ryan, the 2012 Republican vice presidential candidate and a potential White House hopeful next time around, told Tapper that Obama appears to be circumventing the Constitution with an "end run" around Congress.

"If there's something he thinks needs to be changed in law, then he needs to make the case to Congress," Ryan said, noting that there is an "effective way" to use the bully pulpit "to encourage good things."

Document CNNWR00020140130ea1u00bt3



Shegerian & Associates Founder Points to Wal-Mart Case as "Textbook Example of Unlawful Retaliation"

482 words
30 January 2014
01:08 PM
Business Wire
BWR
English
(c) 2014    Business Wire. All Rights Reserved.      


LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 30, 2014-- 

Carney R. Shegerian, founder of Shegerian & Associates, a Santa Monica-based law firm specializing in employee rights, has issued a statement aimed at all employees and employers in light of a recent high profile case concerning Wal-Mart and unlawful retaliation.

In the case, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) had charged that two adults were unlawfully rejected for jobs at a New Mexico Wal-Mart because of their mother's prior sex discrimination complaint. As a result, Wal-Mart agreed to pay $87,000 and furnish other relief as part of the settlement agreed to earlier this week.

The EEOC's lawsuit charged that the Wal-Mart store in Northeast Albuquerque refused to hire Ramona Bradford's adult son and daughter for entry-level positions because Bradford had previously filed a sex discrimination charge against Wal-Mart with the EEOC.

Shegerian stated that the case serves as a good reminder to employers and employees alike that retaliating against employees and/or their families because of a previous complaint is unlawful in any state.

"There's an important lesson to be learned here and that is that retaliation against an employee because of her opposition to discrimination and/or participation in protected activity, such as filing a discrimination charge, violates Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964," said Shegerian. "Perhaps more importantly, it is crucial that employees who are retaliated against in such a manner take a stand, speak up and go public as Ms. Bradford has done. We also applaud the EEOC for their diligence in investigating these cases."

An experienced trial attorney and Trial Lawyer of the Year Award winner for 2013, Shegerian has tried many jury trials to verdict in both state and federal court, representing individuals that have suffered financial or emotional losses and have been wronged by employers, including major corporations. Shegerian has built a remarkable career on helping those who have been wronged in the workplace. His remarkable success rate is highlighted by over 67 jury trial wins, including 27 seven figure verdicts representing employees.

Located Santa Monica, Shegerian & Associates is a law firm specializing in protecting the rights of employees who have been wronged by their employers. Richly experienced in labor and employment law and possessing an unparalleled success record as litigators (Carney Shegerian, Trial Lawyer of the Year Award winner for 2013, has won over 67 jury trials in his career, including 27 seven figure verdicts), Shegerian & Associates is passionately dedicated to serving the needs of its clients. For more information about the firm, visit www.ShegerianLaw.com, or to learn more about Carney Shegerian specifically, visit http://carneyshegerian.com/

MediaLine Communications    |                                    Paul Williams, 310-569-0023    |                                    paul@medialinecommunications.com    |                    SOURCE: Shegerian & Associates      

Document BWR0000020140130ea1u000f9

Wal-Mart to Pay $87,500 to Settle EEOC Suit for Unlawful Retaliation

544 words
27 January 2014
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Documents
EEOD
English
Copyright © 2014 Federal Information & News Dispatch, Inc.      

Press Releases and Statements

1-27-14

Wal-Mart to Pay $87,500 to Settle EEOC Suit for Unlawful Retaliation

Federal Agency Charged Two Adult Children Were Unlawfully Rejected for Jobs Because of Mother's Prior Sex Discrimination Complaint

ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. - Wal-Mart Associates, Inc., and Wal-Mart Stores East, Inc., L.P., doing business as Walmart stores in Albuquerque, will pay $87,500 and furnish other relief to settle a lawsuit for retaliation filed by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the agency announced today.

The EEOC's lawsuit charged that Walmart Store #835 on Eubank in Northeast Albuquerque refused to hire Ramona Bradford's adult son and daughter for entry-level positions because Ms. Bradford had filed a sex discrimination charge against Wal-Mart with the EEOC.

Retaliation against an employee because of her opposition to discrimination and/or participation in protected activity, such as filing a discrimination charge, violates Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The EEOC also alleged that Ramona Bradford was a victim of retaliation because her two adult children were being denied employment because of her complaints about discrimination and her charge filing.

The EEOC filed suit in March 2007, EEOC v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., and Wal-Mart Stores East, Inc., 07-cv-00300 JAP/WPL, in U.S. District Court for the District of New Mexico after first attempting to reach a pre-litigation voluntary settlement through its conciliation process.

In addition to monetary relief for the Bradfords, the consent decree settling the suit provides for other important relief, including an injunction prohibiting retaliatory practices; training for managerial employees on retaliation; and the posting of a notice advising employees of their rights under Title VII.

"This case involved an interesting and instructive fact pattern -- retaliation against family members because their mother had filed a discrimination charge," said Regional Attorney Mary Jo O'Neill of the EEOC's Phoenix District Office. "The United States Supreme Court in Thompson v. North American Stainless held that employers cannot take adverse actions against employees or their relatives or others close to them because the applicant or employee did the right thing and complained of unlawful conduct in the workplace."

EEOC Albuquerque Area Director Derick Newton said, "Retaliation continues to be a high priority for the EEOC - it always was, and under our national Strategic Enforcement Plan, preserving access to the legal system is especially emphasized. We now receive more retaliation charges than any other kind of discrimination charges -- over 42 percent of our charges contain retaliation allegations. We are pleased that this case could be resolved for the Bradfords and mandates that Wal-Mart train its managers about retaliation."

Eliminating policies and practices that discourage or prohibit individuals from exercising their rights under employment discrimination statutes, or that impede the EEOC's investigative or enforcement efforts, is one of six national priorities identified by the EEOC's Strategic Enforcement Plan (SEP).

The EEOC enforces federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination. Further information about the EEOC is available on its web site at www.eeoc.gov. The Phoenix District Office of the EEOC has jurisdiction over Arizona, Colorado, Wyoming, New Mexico and Utah.

Document EEOD000020140127ea1r0002t

Local News
Plea Of Not Guilty Entered To Falls Burglary

1,546 words
22 January 2014
Buffalo News
BFNW
B.11
English
© 2014 Buffalo News.    Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.    All rights reserved.      

Plea of not guilty entered to Falls burglary

LOCKPORT - A Lewiston man pleaded not guilty Tuesday to a three- count indictment accusing him of burglarizing a vacant Niagara Falls building Aug. 31.

Gerald Welker Jr., 28, of Upper Mountain Road, is charged with third-degree burglary, possession of burglary tools and second- degree criminal mischief in connection with the break-in at a vacant building in the Highland Technology Park on Highland Avenue.

Niagara County Judge Matthew J. Murphy III issued a bench warrant for a co-defendant, Nicholas McConnaughey, 42, of Ferry Avenue, Niagara Falls, who didn't appear at Tuesday's arraignment.

Plea bargains accepted for three sex offenses

LOCKPORT - Andrew K. Peyatt, of Bridgeport, W.Va., a former Lockport resident, accepted a plea bargain Tuesday for three sex offenses over a 17-year period. The deal limits his prison term to 15 years, with as many as 15 years of post-release supervision.

Niagara County Judge Sara Sheldon Farkas will make the sentence official April 1 for Peyatt, 56, who pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of attempted first-degree course of sexual conduct against a child for a series of incidents with a girl under age 11 in Lockport between Aug. 1, 1996, and July 28, 1997.

He also admitted to attempted first-degree criminal sexual act for forcible sex with a woman during a visit to Lockport in the summer of 2012 and to attempted dissemination of indecent material to a minor for emailing a naked photo to an underage girl in April 2013.

Two enter guilty pleas to felony DWI charges

LOCKPORT - Men from North Tonawanda and Lyndonville pleaded guilty to felony driving while intoxicated in separate cases Tuesday in Niagara County Court.

Ryan T. Allgrim, 31, of Robinson Street, North Tonawanda, is to be sentenced March 18 by County Judge Matthew J. Murphy III. Allgrim was arrested after police responding to a harassment call on Falconer Street in North Tonawanda at about 6 p.m. Sept. 16 saw Allgrim leaving a pickup truck. His blood alcohol content was measured at 0.28 percent.

James P. Smith, 38, of South Main Street, Lyndonville, was scheduled for sentencing April 1 by County Judge Sara Sheldon Farkas. Smith was arrested May 18 in Royalton, and his blood alcohol content was measured at 0.15 percent.

Deputy District Attorney Theodore A. Brenner recommended no more than a year in jail for Allgrim, and a six-month limit for Smith followed by 4o years of probation.

Teen arraigned in theft of jeans from mall store

LOCKPORT - A Buffalo teenager was arraigned on felony charges Tuesday in Niagara County Court in connection with the reported theft of a large quantity of jeans from the Saks Off 5th store in the Fashion Outlets mall in the Town of Niagara.

Terence M. Taylor, 17, of Wilkes Avenue, pleaded not guilty to third-degree burglary, fourth-degree grand larceny and possession of burglary tools.

Assistant District Attorney Kevin D. Canali said Taylor and a juvenile allegedly made off with more than $1,000 worth of jeans from the store Aug. 11.

That was two days before two other Buffalo residents were arrested in a similar theft of designer jeans from the same store. Both of those defendants - Derrick M. Nailor, 57, of Simon Street, and Dominique L. Bradshaw, 18, of Dutton Avenue - have pleaded guilty and are awaiting sentencing.

Theft of air conditioner brings one-year jail term

LOCKPORT - A Grand Island man who stole an air conditioner from the Niagara Falls Walmart store April 12 was sentenced Tuesday to a year in Niagara County Jail by State Supreme Court Justice Richard C. Kloch Sr.

Michael G. Kargatis Jr., 50, of Bedell Road, had pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of attempted third-degree robbery.

Kargatis allegedly shoved a shopping cart into the path of a pursuing employee as he fled the store. Kloch has ordered Kargatis never to enter that Walmart again.

Woman gets one-year term on meth lab conviction

A Town of Niagara woman convicted of making methamphetamine was sentenced Tuesday by U.S. District Judge Richard J. Arcara to a year in prison.

Roberta Hannon, 46, who was arrested along with three others in May 2012, is the last defendant in the case to go to prison.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Mary Catherine Baumgarten said the case revolved around a police search that found extensive evidence of a methamphetamine cooking lab at Hannon's mobile home on Quain Place.

The defendant's husband, Jason Hannon, and two others also were sentenced to prison in the case.

Plea of not guilty entered to Falls burglary

LOCKPORT - A Lewiston man pleaded not guilty Tuesday to a three- count indictment accusing him of burglarizing a vacant Niagara Falls building Aug. 31.

Gerald Welker Jr., 28, of Upper Mountain Road, is charged with third-degree burglary, possession of burglary tools and second- degree criminal mischief in connection with the break-in at a vacant building in the Highland Technology Park on Highland Avenue.

Niagara County Judge Matthew J. Murphy III issued a bench warrant for a co-defendant, Nicholas McConnaughey, 42, of Ferry Avenue, Niagara Falls, who didn't appear at Tuesday's arraignment.

Plea bargains accepted for three sex offenses

LOCKPORT - Andrew K. Peyatt, of Bridgeport, W.Va., a former Lockport resident, accepted a plea bargain Tuesday for three sex offenses over a 17-year period. The deal limits his prison term to 15 years, with as many as 15 years of post-release supervision.

Niagara County Judge Sara Sheldon Farkas will make the sentence official April 1 for Peyatt, 56, who pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of attempted first-degree course of sexual conduct against a child for a series of incidents with a girl under age 11 in Lockport between Aug. 1, 1996, and July 28, 1997.

He also admitted to attempted first-degree criminal sexual act for forcible sex with a woman during a visit to Lockport in the summer of 2012 and to attempted dissemination of indecent material to a minor for emailing a naked photo to an underage girl in April 2013.

Two enter guilty pleas to felony DWI charges

LOCKPORT - Men from North Tonawanda and Lyndonville pleaded guilty to felony driving while intoxicated in separate cases Tuesday in Niagara County Court.

Ryan T. Allgrim, 31, of Robinson Street, North Tonawanda, is to be sentenced March 18 by County Judge Matthew J. Murphy III. Allgrim was arrested after police responding to a harassment call on Falconer Street in North Tonawanda at about 6 p.m. Sept. 16 saw Allgrim leaving a pickup truck. His blood alcohol content was measured at 0.28 percent.

James P. Smith, 38, of South Main Street, Lyndonville, was scheduled for sentencing April 1 by County Judge Sara Sheldon Farkas. Smith was arrested May 18 in Royalton, and his blood alcohol content was measured at 0.15 percent.

Deputy District Attorney Theodore A. Brenner recommended no more than a year in jail for Allgrim, and a six-month limit for Smith followed by 4o years of probation.

Teen arraigned in theft of jeans from mall store

LOCKPORT - A Buffalo teenager was arraigned on felony charges Tuesday in Niagara County Court in connection with the reported theft of a large quantity of jeans from the Saks Off 5th store in the Fashion Outlets mall in the Town of Niagara.

Terence M. Taylor, 17, of Wilkes Avenue, pleaded not guilty to third-degree burglary, fourth-degree grand larceny and possession of burglary tools.

Assistant District Attorney Kevin D. Canali said Taylor and a juvenile allegedly made off with more than $1,000 worth of jeans from the store Aug. 11.

That was two days before two other Buffalo residents were arrested in a similar theft of designer jeans from the same store. Both of those defendants - Derrick M. Nailor, 57, of Simon Street, and Dominique L. Bradshaw, 18, of Dutton Avenue - have pleaded guilty and are awaiting sentencing.

Theft of air conditioner brings one-year jail term

LOCKPORT - A Grand Island man who stole an air conditioner from the Niagara Falls Walmart store April 12 was sentenced Tuesday to a year in Niagara County Jail by State Supreme Court Justice Richard C. Kloch Sr.

Michael G. Kargatis Jr., 50, of Bedell Road, had pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of attempted third-degree robbery.

Kargatis allegedly shoved a shopping cart into the path of a pursuing employee as he fled the store. Kloch has ordered Kargatis never to enter that Walmart again.

Woman gets one-year term on meth lab conviction

A Town of Niagara woman convicted of making methamphetamine was sentenced Tuesday by U.S. District Judge Richard J. Arcara to a year in prison.

Roberta Hannon, 46, who was arrested along with three others in May 2012, is the last defendant in the case to go to prison.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Mary Catherine Baumgarten said the case revolved around a police search that found extensive evidence of a methamphetamine cooking lab at Hannon's mobile home on Quain Place.

The defendant's husband, Jason Hannon, and two others also were sentenced to prison in the case.

Document BFNW000020140122ea1m0000r



The ERISA Litigation Newsletter - January 2014

Proskauer's Employee Benefits, Executive Compensation & ERISA Litigation Practice Center      
10,543 words
22 January 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd      

EDITOR'S OVERVIEW

This month we look at part three of our three part series on Class Actions. In part three, Robert Rachal and M. Todd Mobley address the role of experts in class certification post Wal-Mart and Comcast and how to use and attack experts during the class certification phase of class action litigation. Please look for parts one and two of this series in our previous Newsletters.

As always, be sure to review the Rulings, Filings, and Settlement of Interest where we discuss the Supreme Court's decision to resolve a circuit split in health care reform cases, the Supreme Court's decision on the enforceability of plan limitations provisions, the availability of remedies under ERISA, IRS guidance on in-plan Roth rollovers, benefits for same-sex spouses and non-discrimination testing relief, and valid assignments of rights.

LABOR AND EMPLOYMENT AND ERISA CLASS ACTIONS AFTER WAL-MART AND COMCAST—PRACTICE POINTS FOR DEFENDANTS (PART III - EXPERTS)*

By Robert Rachal and M. Todd Mobley

Introduction and Overview Part III: Wal-Mart and Comcast and the Central Role of Experts in Class Certification

This is the final installment of a three-part Bloomberg BNA Insight article addressing the impact of Wal-Mart and Comcast on labor and employment and ERISA class actions (197 PBD, 10/10/13; 207 PBD, 10/25/13; 40 BPR 2427, 10/15/13; 40 BPR 2537, 10/29/13). This is a hotly contested and developing area—cases such as the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit's recent ruling suggesting a class may be possible regarding management discretion indicate that the full meanings of Wal-Mart and of Comcast are still being developed.1 This part focuses on experts, and how defendants may be able to use experts to defeat or limit class certification.

Wal-Mart and Comcast offer a good place to begin a discussion on class certification and experts, since the failures of expert proof in those cases led to class decertification. In Wal-Mart, plaintiffs sought to prove commonality for their pay and promotion claims using two forms of expert proof: (i) a "social framework" analysis purporting to show that Wal-Mart had a corporate culture that made it susceptible to gender bias; and (ii) a statistical analysis that showed disparities in pay and promotions.2 In answering the central question as to "why was I disfavored," the Court found the social framework analysis of plaintiffs' expert useless for class purposes—it provided no "glue" to show that discretion was exercised in a common and discriminatory manner—since it could not answer whether 0.5 percent or 95 percent of the employment decisions at Wal-Mart were determined by stereotyped thinking on gender.3

The Court also found plaintiffs' statistical evidence deficient. The Court noted that the presence of disparities at the national or regional level does not establish the existence of disparities—or discrimination—at the store level where the challenged decisions were made. The statistics' more fundamental flaw was that they failed to address possible sex-neutral reasons, including the relative availability of qualified and interested women at the store level, that could rebut any bottom-line disparities. Proof of bottom-line disparities does not answer the common question. Rather, the plaintiff must identify the particular employment practice causing the disparity and show that it caused the disparity through a common mode of acting.4

In Comcast Corp. v. Behrend,5 the Court addressed the proof of harm and damages—which is almost always done through experts—required to certify a class. In an antitrust claim regarding a proposed class of cable subscribers, plaintiffs proffered four theories of antitrust injury that they argued drove-up cable subscription rates.6 The district judge found only one of these, the "deterrence of overbuilding" theory, capable of class-wide proof, and that the others could not be determined in a manner common to the class.7 Plaintiffs' economics expert admitted that he had not isolated the damages resulting from the different theories of antitrust impact, instead including the non-class theories in his model.8

The Court concluded that this expert evidence failed to carry plaintiffs' burden of proof on Rule 23's requirements.9 Specifically, the Court found that plaintiffs failed to satisfy the predominance requirements of Rule 23(b)(3) because they could not show damages capable of class-wide proof.10 The Court held that the damages model must be consistent with the liability model—i.e., that any model purporting to serve as evidence of damages in a class action must measure only damages attributable to the class-wide theory of harm.11 In the view of the dissent, the expert evidence tendered was sufficient for class purposes since it purported to show that Comcast's conduct resulted in higher prices, even though it failed to show causation tied to the class theory of harm.12 The majority imposed a far more rigorous standard: Plaintiffs must prove that the claimed class-wrong caused the injury class-wide, free of taint from individual factors. Absent such proof, plaintiffs cannot satisfy Rule 23's requirement that common issues predominate for class claims seeking damages.13

As detailed below, Wal-Mart and Comcast provide significant grounds to challenge expert opinions supporting class certification.

Going on Offense: Using and Attacking Experts in Class Certification

The facts necessary to establish—or disestablish—whether Rule 23 has been met typically require expert analysis and opinion, e.g., analysis of whether there are common issues or of whether everyone in the class has a common interest or suffered a common injury. These are not facts typically found in the record, and rulings like Wal-Mart and Comcast illustrate how expert issues can affect class certification.

To prohibit abuse and enhance evidentiary reliability, there are a host of rules that control and limit expert evidence. In the class stage, an initial issue is whether class experts are subject to Daubert and the attendant reliability requirements imposed on expert evidence.14 To meet Daubert's reliability requirements, the expert must show that his testimony (i) is based on sufficient facts or data, (ii) is the product of reliable principles and methods, and (iii) that the expert has applied the principles and methods reliably to the facts at hand.15 In a not-too-distant era of "certify first, ask questions later," many courts declined to require that class experts meet the reliability standards imposed by Daubert. These days should be past; now class expert evidence must be not merely admissible but persuasive to pass class muster.16

On defense strategy, class certification is typically procedurally advantageous to defendants. Unlike in summary judgment, at class certification plaintiffs bear the burden of proof. Further, class certification is often the first opportunity for a defendant to put on facts supporting its case and to show the defects in a plaintiff's class claims. Defendants can challenge plaintiffs' experts, and defendants can also put on their own experts to show the defects in plaintiffs' expert-analyses or to develop expert evidence showing that the Rule 23 requirements have not been met. Potential grounds to challenge experts and the Rule 23 requirements are discussed throughout this three-part Bloomberg BNA Insight article; some key points include:

On discrimination claims, are decisions made at the local store, office, or facility level? Does plaintiff's expert bundle up or "average out" the statistics? Conversely, can a defense expert show variability between the store, office, or facility on the challenged criteria?

On discrimination claims, are decisions made at multiple levels, with multiple actors and inputs? Does plaintiff's expert use a "bottom line" analysis that does not account for or break out the steps in the process? Conversely, can a defense expert show the importance of the steps in the process, and any variability on the challenged criteria by the different actors and steps in the process?

On discrimination claims, has plaintiff's expert accounted for employee choice and interest? Conversely, can a defense expert show that there is not homogeneous interest in or qualifications for the job positions at issue?

On ERISA (or discrimination claims) have some in the proposed class benefitted from the challenged conduct? Can a defense expert statistically analyze and show these differences? 

Expert Issues Arising in Employer Discrimination Class Claims

Because they may rely on invalid or questionable assumptions, plaintiffs' class experts in discrimination claims are often ripe for challenge. Specifically, it is common for the plaintiff's class expert to assume homogeneity so as to infer causation and discrimination; for example, by assuming that everyone in the proposed class has the same job qualifications or interests or that the challenged decisions were made by the same decision-maker. But as explained in the Federal Judicial Center's Reference Manual on Scientific Evidence, if the data is not homogeneous, the statistical analysis combining that data is irrelevant and often misleading.17 Thus, as Wal-Mart noted, when discretionary decisions are made by different decision-makers, "demonstrating the invalidity of one manager's use of discretion will do nothing to demonstrate the invalidity of another's."18 Likewise, as illustrated in the Reference Manual on Scientific Evidence, if females are disproportionately applying to a position with a lower acceptance rate, those statistics cannot be reliably combined with other statistics to show gender discrimination.19 Similarly, association does not necessarily show causation, as there may be confounding variables that cause or substantially affect the challenged disparities.20 Statistics seeking to show disparities are also invalid if they fail to consider those who are similarly situated for the challenged action.21

Expert issues worth noting at the class-certification stage of employment discrimination actions may include:

Failure to focus on the appropriate unit or level of analysis; and

Failure to account for confounding variables like individual choice or the interests of putative class members.

"Soft science experts," like survey and other social science experts, may also be challenged as unreliable or unpersuasive in showing that class requirements, such as commonality, have been met. Wal-Mart illustrated this, rejecting a sociological expert who could not specify with any degree of precision how often gender stereotyping affected the managers' decisions, and, thus, his testimony was irrelevant since it provided no "glue" to show there was a common mode of exercising discretion.22 Experts who purport to do surveys, or the like, to extrapolate to class damages also may be interdicted by Wal-Mart's bar on "Trial by Formula."23 Finally, it is important for defendants to consider using experts to undermine plaintiffs' statistical or other expert analyses and to develop alternative analyses showing, for example, that commonality, typicality, or adequacy are not met.

Failure to Focus on the Appropriate Unit or Level of Analysis

In Wal-Mart, commonality for plaintiffs' claims required showing that discretionary employment decisions were being made uniformly by individual store managers throughout all of Wal-Mart's 3,400 stores.24 In attempting to make such a showing, plaintiffs presented statistical evidence based on aggregated data collected from the regional and national corporate levels. As discussed above, the Court found this evidence insufficient, because disparities between men and women at the national or regional level could not establish the existence of the same disparities at the individual store level.25 The Court held that "[m]erely showing that Wal-Mart's policy of discretion has produced an overall sex-based disparity does not suffice."26 The Court explained that when claims are based on discretionary employment decisions, proof of discrimination and commonality must account for the actions of the actual decision-maker.

In line with Wal-Mart, lower courts have denied class certification when claims regarding discretionary employment decisions rely on statistical analyses that aggregate data across decision-makers. Indeed, in Bolden v. Walsh Construction Co. the Seventh Circuit summarized the post Wal-Mart world by explaining that "local discretion cannot support a company-wide class no matter how cleverly lawyers may try to repackage local variability as uniformity."27 In Bolden, plaintiffs (construction workers formerly employed by defendant) alleged that defendant's construction-site superintendents exercised their discretion in a racially discriminatory fashion over assigning overtime hours and managing on-site working conditions.28 Plaintiffs supported their allegations with statistical evidence based on data aggregated from all Chicago-area sites. The court, however, found that the analysis failed to focus on the "appropriate unit of analysis."29 The court explained that if defendant "had 25 superintendents, 5 of whom discriminated in awarding overtime, aggregate data would show that black workers did worse than white workers—but that result would not imply that all 25 superintendents behaved similarly, so it would not demonstrate commonality."30

The Third Circuit encountered the issue of an expert's failure to focus on the appropriate unit of analysis in a slightly different context in Rodriguez v. National City Bank.31 In Rodriguez, the district court denied certification of the settlement class because, in Wal-Mart's wake, plaintiffs' regression analyses could not establish commonality and typicality.32 Plaintiffs' class action alleged that, because of defendant's discretionary pricing policy on certain mortgage fees, black and Latino borrowers received disproportionately higher non-risk-related charges than similarly-situated white borrowers.33 The district court found that statistical evidence of an overall race-based disparity was insufficient to establish commonality and typicality; rather, plaintiffs would need "to show the disparate impact and analysis for each loan officer or at a minimum each group of loan officers working for a specific supervisor[.]" 34 The Third Circuit agreed and explained that "the exercise of broad discretion by an untold number of unique decision-makers ... undermines the attempt to claim, on the basis of statistics alone, that the decisions are bound together by a common discriminatory mode."35

Failure to Account for Confounding Variables like Individual Choice of the Putative Class Members

Statistical analyses may also be vulnerable to attack for failure to account for the individual choice or interests of putative class members. When defendants are able to put forth evidence suggesting proposed class members may not have homogeneous interests, choices or qualifications, courts have rejected plaintiffs' attempts to gloss over such variables and make assumptions regarding the homogeneity (and, in turn, commonality and typicality among the members) of the proposed class.

For example, in York v. Starbucks Corp., a wage and hour case involving allegations that Starbuck's corporate policies incentivized managers to "shortchange" workers of their rights under California labor law, the court took issue with plaintiffs' statistical evidence for failure to take individual choice into account.36 The court explained that, with regard to lunch and rest breaks, "the statistical evidence cannot begin to show whether a break was skipped because a manager forbade the employee from taking it or whether it was not taken as a matter of individual choice."37 Accordingly, the court found that the statistical evidence failed to demonstrate what might have caused the alleged labor violations—corporate policy, or individual choices and desires.38

Similarly, in Puffer v. Allstate Ins. Co., plaintiff commenced a Title VII sex-discrimination action against Allstate on behalf of all female Allstate employees in management positions.39 In an effort to establish commonality, plaintiff proffered a statistical analysis of Allstate's personnel data, which provided information regarding employment records and compensation.40 Plaintiff argued that the analysis identified disparities in job assignments, promotions, and levels of salary paid.41 However, the court disagreed, taking issue with the fact that plaintiff's expert failed to consider, among other things, "whether putative class members were interested in the management jobs that [the expert] found were underrepresented by women ... ."42 The court noted that although it is not necessary for experts to include all possible measurable variables in their analyses, crucial variables may not be omitted or glossed over—and in Title VII cases particularly, such crucial variables include the identification of those who were qualified and interested in the position.43

Failure to account for individual choices and interests—at least when the evidence suggests that this is a meaningful issue—also undermines statistical analyses by infecting the data with claims of putative class members who suffered no class harm. Such failures have led courts to reject employment-related statistical analyses as unreliable on proof of liability.44 This also may have added force on proof of class damages. In Comcast, the Supreme Court faced analogous issues in rejecting plaintiffs' expert's damages model; this was so because "at the class certification stage (as at trial), any model supporting a plaintiff's damages case must be consistent with its liability case ... ."45 Although Comcast was not an employment case, its principle that class damages must be limited to the class harm uninfected by individual issues is a broad one. The same principle applies when plaintiff's statistical analyses or proofs of class harm fail to account for individual choices and interests in the employment context—the analyses become over-inclusive and incapable of reflecting the class harm.

Defendants' Use of Experts to Defeat Class Certification

As the cases above illustrate, challenging plaintiff's proffered statistical experts is often effective to defeat or limit the class. Notably, this strategy need not be strictly defensive, as defendants may also affirmatively employ expert testimony to defeat class certification.

For example, in Serrano v. Cintas Corp., the court found that defendants' statistical experts effectively undermined the statistical evidence proffered by plaintiffs, preventing plaintiffs from establishing a class-wide discriminatory impact.46 In Serrano, plaintiffs alleged that defendant engaged in race and gender discrimination when hiring for sales positions, and they proffered statistical experts to establish commonality.47 Defendant, in turn, presented statistical experts who demonstrated that although some of defendant's store locations under-hired women and racial minorities, other locations over-hired members of these groups.48 Further, defendants' expert showed that although some locations under-hired women, those same locations over-hired racial minorities.49 Indeed, some locations under-hired one or both groups one year and over-hired the same group or groups the following year.50 Defendant's expert thus provided evidentiary support for the lack-of-commonality issue flagged in Wal-Mart—that a court can neither assume that there was a "common mode of acting" nor establish commonality by aggregating data across decision-makers and facilities.

In Randall v. Rolls-Royce Corp., the district court denied class certification because, among other things, defendants' statistical expert demonstrated a lack of commonality among putative class members.51 In a gender discrimination claim over compensation, defendants' expert showed that plaintiffs' expert failed to account for important variables in compensation.52 The Rolls-Royce defendants also used statistical analyses to demonstrate that plaintiffs failed to satisfy Rule 23's typicality requirement. Here, defendants' expert showed that the named plaintiffs actually earned salaries equal to or greater than their male comparators during the class period.53 Thus, the court found "it is plainly true that the particular circumstances surrounding the named Plaintiffs' individual claims do not comport with the required element of typicality."54

Expert Issues Arising in ERISA Class Claims

ERISA claims involving disclosures (ERISA imposes statutory and fiduciary duties on disclosing information to participants) or investments in 401(k) plans often raise class issues for experts. For disclosure claims, the assumption of homogenous understandings may be inaccurate. Many ERISA claims involve multiple disclosures over extended periods, each of which can raise issues about what the various class members knew, relied upon, or understood.

For example, in Groussman v. Motorola, Inc., the court denied class certification for former participants in a 401(k) plan offered by Motorola.55 Plaintiffs alleged that defendants imprudently managed the 401(k) plan, including by making misrepresentations related to their investments in Motorola's stock.56 The court found that plaintiffs could not satisfy Rule 23's typicality requirement because, among other reasons, they failed to identify the specific misrepresentations that were made and relied upon.57 In contrast, defendants showed that there was "a difference as to what each [p]laintiff understood at any given time, and that [p]laintiffs did not rely upon the same information or statements in making their investment decisions."58 Communications or statistical experts also may be coupled with this anecdotal evidence to defeat class; for example, a statistical analysis of actions taken may show that plaintiff's claim of uniform homogenous understandings and reliance is implausible.

Experts thus may prove useful when claims involve different communications made to different members of a proposed class—even when objective standards apply to whether a defendant is liable for those communications. In Luiken v. Domino's Pizza LLC, the issue was whether a delivery service charge imposed by defendant for pizza deliveries was a gratuity under a state statute.59 The court held that even though the statute used an objective standard to determine whether a service charge is a gratuity, the context of the communications as to each customer still mattered. Thus, the court found that there was no commonality under Wal-Mart, because there was no common answer as to what each customer was told and understood regarding their service charge payments.60 In this context communication experts could buttress this lack of commonality by showing how understandings vary based on the different communications made.

Experts also can be central to class claims challenging ERISA investments involving 401(k) or other participant-directed individual account plans. For example, experts may be able to show that the class's interests are not homogenous. This proved effective in Langbecker v. Electronic Data Systems Corp., where plaintiffs claimed that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties by offering the company's stock in the 401(k) plan.61 Defendants' expert showed that thousands of class members profited from this investment, and thousands more continued to invest in the company's stock after the plaintiffs claimed it should be eliminated. Moreover, the expert showed that putative class members had different interests on which theory of the case would maximize their claims and recovery.62 The court found that the expert's analysis defeated Rule 23's adequacy requirement; thus, the class was decertified.63

Wal-Mart has reinvigorated this type of conflict analysis. In Groussman, defendants attacked the commonality of the proposed class by showing that the challenged investments had varying effects based on the putative class members' individual trading patterns.64 The court held this defeated commonality, finding it "likely that a portion of the proposed class members actually acquired a net gain during the class period as a result of the investments in Motorola stock."65 Similarly, in Spano v. Boeing Co., an action challenging defendant's 401(k) plan investment options and fees, the Seventh Circuit found that the named plaintiffs could not satisfy Rule 23's adequacy requirement, because the class was so broadly defined that many putative members suffered no harm or may have even profited from the challenged investment options.66 These class conflicts and lack of commonality can arise in multiple contexts, such as for claims based on fund withdrawal restrictions imposed in response to financial disruption caused by the Great Recession.67

These intra-class conflict issues are also not limited to actions challenging investments in 401(k) or other participant-directed plans. For example, these issues may arise in actions challenging plan investments for closely held ESOPs. In Hans v. Tharaldson the court found current and former employees of an ESOP-owned company had divergent interests regarding the class litigation because the litigation risked harm to the company's value and sales prospects, thereby harming the ESOP investments of the current employees.68

RULINGS, FILINGS AND SETTLEMENTS OF INTEREST

Supreme Court to Resolve Circuit Split in Health Care Reform Cases

By Peter Marathas, Robert Rachal and Brian Neulander

The Supreme Court will review two of the numerous lawsuits challenging the Affordable Care Act's (ACA) requirement that group health plans and insurers cover, without cost-sharing, contraceptives and/or abortifacients (the "Contraceptive Mandate"). The plaintiffs in these suits are secular, for-profit corporations and their owners, and they assert that being forced to comply with the Contraceptive Mandate would violate their First Amendment religious rights and would also violate the Religious Freedoms Restoration Act ("RFRA").

All courts addressing the various Contraceptive Mandate suits have struggled with the issue of whether secular, for-profit corporations are covered under either the First Amendment or RFRA (which generally prohibits federal law from imposing a burden on any "person's" religious freedom). This year, a circuit split developed: the Seventh, Tenth, and D.C. Circuits adopted a "pass through" theory that allowed the corporations to assert the free exercise rights of their owners, and held that the Contraceptive Mandate places a substantial burden on the plaintiffs' religious freedoms. The Third and Sixth Circuits, in contrast, have rejected the argument that secular, for-profit corporations can exercise religion, and have held that the owners are not burdened since it is the corporation, not the owners, who would be funding this coverage.

The Supreme Court is likely to schedule oral argument for March, and a ruling is expected in June. Because the Court will address the religious rights of for-profit corporations, the ruling may have significance beyond the Affordable Care Act.

Valid Assignment Confers Beneficiary Status on Chiropractor

By Todd Mobley

A federal district court in Illinois recently issued a pair of rulings in cases where insurers sought to recoup payments from practitioners. Pennsylvania Chiropractic Association v. Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 159331 (N.D. Ill. Nov. 7, 2013); 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 159491 (N.D. Ill. Nov. 7, 2013). Plaintiffs, three individual chiropractors and three chiropractic associations, alleged that defendants, Blue Cross Blue Shield of America and individual Blue Cross Blue Shield entities (collectively, "BCBS"), falsely or fraudulently determined that certain reimbursements they received for services rendered should never have been made. When plaintiffs refused BCBS's demands to repay the challenged reimbursements, BCBS withheld payments on subsequent, unrelated claims that plaintiffs submitted to BCBS for services provided to other BCBS insureds.

The court ruled that one of the individual chiropractors had standing to assert claims under ERISA because the chiropractor's patients (i.e., plan participants) had assigned to him their rights to payment under their health plans and was thus an ERISA beneficiary. The court found that the chiropractor was not afforded ERISA notice and appeal rights to which a beneficiary is entitled following an adverse benefit determination, and thus granted the chiropractor summary judgment as to liability. For the other two individual chiropractor plaintiffs, the court denied summary judgment because there remained triable issues regarding anti-assignment clauses in their provider agreements. In a related decision, the court determined that the chiropractic-association plaintiffs also had standing because the injunctive and equitable relief sought would inure to the benefit of plaintiffs' members.

Sixth Circuit Expands Availability of Remedies Under ERISA

By Brian Neulander

The Sixth Circuit recently concluded that a disability plan participant was entitled to relief consisting of benefits under the plan and disgorgement of defendant's profits for delaying payment. In so ruling, the Court found that this case presented a "a logical extension" of its precedent allowing a plaintiff to pursue in limited circumstances both a claim for benefits and a claim for breach of fiduciary duty where, as here, the claim for benefits would not prevent defendants' unjust enrichment. Rochow v. Life ins. Co. of N. Am., 2013 WL 6333440 (6th Cir. Dec. 6, 2013). Moreover, relying on copyright law that permits actual damages and disgorgement of profits, the Court determined that disgorgement did not result in double compensation. Nor did it represent punishment because it left defendant no worse off than it would have been had it paid benefits to plaintiff when they were due. Lastly, the Court noted that "[i]f no remedy beyond the award of benefits were allowed, insurance companies would have the perverse incentive to deny benefits for as long as possible, risking only litigation costs in the process." A sharply worded dissent criticized the ruling, not only as contrary to precedent, but also counter to ERISA's goal of expeditious claims resolution based on the administrative record.

USSC to Consider Presumption of Prudence in Employer Stock Litigation

By Russell Hirschhorn

On Friday, the US Supreme Court agreed to consider Fifth Third Bancorp v. Dudenhoeffer (U.S. No. 12-751, cert. granted 12/13/13). The Supreme Court stated that it will consider the following issue: "Whether, to state a claim that a fiduciary of an employee stock ownership plan violated the duty of prudence by continuing to invest plan assets in the employer's stock, a plaintiff must rebut a presumption that the fiduciary acted prudently by alleging that the employer faced imminent financial peril?" Click here for a summary of the Sixth Circuit's decision.

Supreme Court Affirms Enforceability of Plan Limitations Provision

By Amy Covert and Joseph Clark

Resolving a split among the Courts of Appeal, the United States Supreme Court affirmed the Second Circuit in finding enforceable a limitations provision in a long term disability ERISA plan that set forth the length of the limitations period as well as when the period commenced. The plan at issue required participants to file suit for benefit claims within three years after "proof of loss" is due. Heimeshoff v. Hartford Life & Accident Insurance Co., 2013 WL 6569594 (S. Ct. Dec. 16, 2013).

Defendant Hartford Life & Accident Co., the administrator of Wal-Mart's Long Term Disability Plan, issued a final denial of plaintiff Julie Heimeshoff's claim for long term disability benefits in 2007. Less than three years later, but more than three years after proof of loss was due, plaintiff filed suit, challenging the denial of her benefits pursuant to ERISA § 502(a)(1)(B). She did so despite the plan's limitation provision, which stated that "Legal action cannot be taken against The Hartford . . . [more than] 3 years after the time written proof of loss is required to be furnished according to the terms of the policy."

The District Court granted defendant's motion to dismiss, holding that plaintiff's action was barred by the plan's limitation provision, which the Second Circuit upheld. Affirming, the Supreme Court held that a plan limitation period is enforceable so long as it is not unreasonable or barred by statute. In so holding, the Court disagreed with plaintiff's contention that the limitations provision would "undermine ERISA's two-tiered remedial scheme," finding that the provision does not disrupt ERISA's internal review process or diminish the availability of judicial review.

IRS Provides New Guidance on In-Plan Roth Rollovers

By Lisa A. Berkowitz Herrnson

elective deferrals in 401(k) plans and 403(b) plans;

matching contributions and nonelective contributions, including qualified matching contributions and qualified nonelective contributions; and

annual deferrals made to governmental 457(b) plans.On December 11, 2013, the IRS issued IRS Notice 2013-74 which provides guidance on in-plan Roth rollovers. An in-plan Roth rollover is a rollover within a Section 401(k), Section 403(b) or governmental Section 457(b) plan to a designated Roth account in the same plan. Notice 2013-74 expands the types of contributions that may be rolled over by an in-plan Roth rollover and supplements previous guidance on this topic.

Designated Roth contributions, governed by Section 402A of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"), are elective deferrals to a retirement plan, otherwise excludable from gross income, that a participant elects to include in gross income. An individual's designated Roth contributions, along with associated earnings, must be maintained in a separate account under the plan. Pursuant to an in-plan Roth rollover, a distribution from an individual's account in a retirement plan, other than a designated Roth account, may be rolled over to the individual's designated Roth account in the same plan.

Until now, based on guidance under the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010 ("SBJA"), which first provided for in-plan Roth rollovers, in-plan Roth rollovers were limited to "otherwise distributable amounts" (where a plan participant had attained age 59 ½ or terminated employment). However, Code Section 402A(c)(4)(E) was added by the American Taxpayer Relief Act ("ATRS"), effective for in-plan Roth rollovers made after December 31, 2012. Under this new rule, a plan can permit an in-plan Roth rollover of "otherwise nondistributable amounts" in addition to the amounts already deemed rollover eligible under the SBJA. Accordingly, as explained further in Notice 2013-74, the following amounts are now eligible for in-plan Roth rollovers, regardless of whether the amounts otherwise satisfy conditions for distributions:

Notice 2013-74 clarifies that an amount rolled over to an individual's designated Roth account pursuant to an in-plan Roth rollover remains subject to the plan's distribution restrictions otherwise applicable to that amount before the in-plan Roth rollover. As an example, the guidance describes a 401(k) plan participant who makes an in-plan Roth rollover of an amount not otherwise eligible for distribution because the participant has not yet terminated employment or attained age 59 ½. In that case, the amount rolled over and any applicable earnings may not be distributed from the designated Roth account prior to the occurrence of a distribution event.

The deadline for adopting an amendment providing for in-plan Roth rollovers is the later of the last day of the first plan year for which the amendment is effective or December 31, 2014, provided the amendment is effective as of the date the plan first operates in accordance with the amendment. This extended deadline also applies to plan amendments that allow for elective deferrals under the plan to be designated as Roth contributions, allow for the acceptance of rollover contributions by designated Roth accounts, or permit in-plan Roth rollovers of some or all otherwise distributable amounts. The guidance also notes that, subject to the normal nondiscrimination rules that apply to plan benefits, rights and features, plans may restrict the types of contributions eligible for in-plan Roth rollovers, as well as the frequency of such rollovers.

Those interested in amending plans to satisfy the new rules in Notice 2013-74 should consider their options carefully and consult with counsel to make sure the technical rules are all followed.

Federal District Court (In Its Capacity As An Employer) Must Reimburse Employee for the Cost of Health Benefits for her Same-Sex Domestic Partner

By Tulio Chirinos and Roberta Chevlowe

The Ninth Circuit Judicial Council, an administrative body that reviews decisions of the court's chief judge, recently weighed in on an issue involving same-sex domestic partner health benefits in the post-Windsor world. The decision is interesting insofar as it relies at least partially on the Windsor decision in awarding "spousal" benefits to an unmarried same-sex couple, even though Windsor only addressed the rights of same-sex married couples.

In In re Fonberg, 2013 U.S. App. LEXIS 23826 (9th Cir. Nov. 25, 2013), the Judicial Council ordered a federal district court in Oregon to reinstate a back pay award to its former employee (a law clerk at the court) to account for the cost of health benefits for her same-sex domestic partner. In 2009, the law clerk had requested (and was denied) enrollment of her partner in the health coverage provided by the district court. The coverage was denied because the district court only provided health benefits for spouses, not domestic partners. The law clerk and her partner were unable to marry in their state of residence (Oregon) due to the state's constitutional ban on same-sex marriage. However, under Oregon law, they were able to (and did) register as domestic partners and, under that law, domestic partnerships are conferred rights "on equivalent terms" to marriage.

After the clerk's request for domestic partner health coverage was denied by the Office of Personnel Management (the entity that administers benefit programs for employees of the federal government, including the district court), the clerk filed a discrimination complaint under Oregon law, which at the time prohibited discrimination based on sex and later was amended to include sexual orientation as a protected category. Although the clerk initially was awarded an allowance for the cost of providing her partner with health coverage, that directive was subsequently rescinded by the chief judge.

On appeal, the Judicial Council held that the denial of benefits violated Oregon's nondiscrimination law because the clerk and her partner were being treated differently from opposite sex partners who could marry and receive spousal health benefits from the federal government. The Council found that, while "Oregon's statutory scheme purports to confer upon same-sex domestic partners the same rights and legal status as those conferred on married partners," in actuality it does not, since those partners are denied benefits provided to married couples. Citing Windsor, the Council further concluded that the distinction drawn by the Office of Personnel Management based on the sex of the partners constitutes a deprivation of the clerk's due process and equal protection rights.

The Fonberg decision has far-reaching consequences inasmuch as it appears to require federal government employers to provide health benefits to unmarried same-sex domestic partners who reside in states that provide them with rights equivalent to marriage, even though Windsor only conferred rights on married partners (and has been interpreted as not applying to couples in domestic partnerships and civil unions.) As with other issues flowing from the Windsor decision, stay tuned for how this will play out.

IRS Issues Temporary Non-Discrimination Testing Relief for Closed Defined Benefit Plans and Request for Comments

By Paul Hamburger and Lisa A. Berkowitz Herrnson

be primarily defined benefit in character;

consist of broadly available separate plans; or

meet the minimum aggregate allocation gateway.

for plan year beginning in 2013, the defined benefit plan was part of an Aggregated Plan that was either primarily defined benefit in character; or

the defined benefit plan passed nondiscrimination testing on its own, without any aggregation, for the plan year beginning in 2013.On December 13, 2013, the IRS issued Notice 2014-5 which provides temporary relief for satisfying the nondiscrimination requirements under Section 401(a)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") for plan sponsors that maintain defined benefit plans which have been closed to new hires.

Many defined benefit plan sponsors have implemented "soft freezes" of their plans, closing them to new hires, but continuing defined benefit plan accruals for participants hired before the "soft-freeze." These employers might then implement a new or enhance an existing defined contribution plan for new hires. Over time, the defined benefit plan might no longer pass coverage testing under Code Section 410(b) on its own because of greater turnover among the non-highly compensated employee group covered by the plan relative to the highly compensated employee population. As a result, the frozen defined benefit plan must be aggregated with the defined contribution plan to satisfy the coverage requirements of the Code (the defined benefit plan, when aggregated with the defined contribution plan for testing is referred to as the "Aggregated Plan").

Then, if the defined benefit plan and the defined contribution plan are aggregated for coverage testing, they also must be aggregated for nondiscrimination testing. To satisfy the nondiscrimination requirements, that Aggregated Plan must be tested on the basis of "equivalent benefits" (i.e., by converting the defined contribution amounts to equivalent benefits and then aggregating those benefits with the benefits under the defined benefit plan) by satisfying one of three conditions. Specifically the Aggregated Plan must:

Meeting one of the first two conditions above is most likely during the early years following a "soft freeze." Eventually, however, the demographics will change such that the Aggregated Plan will be required to satisfy the minimum aggregate allocation gateway, which requires that each nonhighly compensated employee in the Aggregated Plan have a minimum aggregate normal allocation rate that is a function of the highest aggregate normal allocation rate of the highly compensated employees. Because many defined contribution plans may not provide for allocations that would satisfy this gateway requirement, the Aggregated Plan will end up not satisfying the nondiscrimination requirements.

Notice 2014-5 offers temporary relief for plan sponsors that maintain closed defined benefit plans. This relief helps these plans meet the Code's technical nondiscrimination requirements for plan years beginning before January 1, 2016, even if the equivalent benefit conditions cannot be satisfied, as long as the defined benefit plan in the Aggregated Plan situation was amended to exclude new hires prior to December 13, 2013 and meets one of the following two conditions:

The IRS noted that all other provisions under Code Section 401(a)(4) concerning nondiscrimination testing apply during this period temporary relief.

Although the relief provided by Notice 2014-5 is certainly welcome, it is questionable how helpful it actually will be to plan sponsors. Perhaps more significantly, the Notice also includes a number of proposals for a permanent resolution to resolve these issues in the future. Plan sponsors facing the challenges addressed in the Notice should certainly consider filing comments on these proposals. Written or electronic comments are being accepted by the IRS until February 28, 2014.

More Post-Windsor Guidance from the IRS Relating to Benefits for Same-Sex Spouses: Cafeteria Plan Changes, Flexible Spending Accounts and Health Savings Accounts

By Bali Kumar and Roberta Chevlowe

Mid-Year Election Changes under Cafeteria PlansPre-Tax Premium Payments for Spousal Health CoverageFSA Reimbursements

Contribution Limits for HSAs and Dependent Care Assistance Programs

Written Plan Amendment

Prior to the U.S. Supreme Court's Windsor decision that repealed Section 3 of the federal Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), same-sex spouses were not recognized as spouses for federal tax and benefits purposes. In the immediate aftermath of Windsor, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued Revenue Ruling 2013-17, which stated the IRS position that, for federal tax purposes, the term "spouse" now includes legally married same-sex couples regardless of whether their state of residence permits same-sex marriage. As a result, the value of employer-provided health coverage for a same-sex spouse would no longer be taxable under federal law, and employees could pay for the coverage on a pre-tax basis through an employer's cafeteria plan. Employees also could obtain reimbursement for same-sex spouses' expenses under health care and other reimbursement plans.

On December 16, 2013, the IRS supplemented that guidance with the release of Notice 2014-1, written in Q&A format with examples. Notice 2014-1 clarifies several issues for plan sponsors and administrators of cafeteria plans, flexible spending accounts (FSAs) and health savings accounts (HSAs). First, it allows an employer to permit an employee to make a mid-year election change under its cafeteria plan with regard to health coverage for a same-sex spouse. Second, it provides that an employee may be reimbursed from his or her health care FSA for expenses incurred by a same-sex spouse during the 2013 plan year, even before the date of the Windsor decision (but no earlier than the date of the marriage). Third, it confirms that a same-sex married couple is subject to the joint limits applicable to married couples under HSAs and dependent care plans.

In the wake of Windsor, employers were confronted with the question of whether they could allow an employee who was married to a same-sex spouse before the date of the Windsor decision to enroll the spouse in employer-provided health coverage or, if the spouse was already covered under the plan, to make an election change to pay for the coverage on a pre-tax basis. Since mid-year election changes under a cafeteria plan are permitted only in limited circumstances where there has been a "change in status" recognized under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code), the answer to this question was not clear. In the absence of specific guidance, some employers took the position that the Windsor decision itself was a change in legal marital status for such an employee (since the marriage was now, but was not previously, recognized under federal law) and, therefore, this was a permissible election change.

Notice 2014-1 confirms that it was (and is) permissible for a cafeteria plan to allow a participant who was already married to a same-sex spouse as of the date of the Windsor decision to make an election change, treating the employee as if he experienced a change in legal marital status due to the Windsor decision. Cafeteria plans may accept such election changes at any time during the plan year that includes June 26, 2013 (i.e., the date of the Windsor decision) or December 16, 2013 (the effective date of the Notice). In addition, a mid-year election change due to a marriage that occurs after the date of the Windsor decision is permissible.

On a related note, the IRS makes clear that the change in federal tax treatment of a same-sex spouse's health benefits (as a result of Windsor) does not constitute a "significant change in the cost of coverage" under the Code Section 125 change in status rules; but, in light of the legal uncertainty created by Windsor and the fact that the Notice in any event recognizes Windsor as a change in legal marital status, .employers that allowed such changes will not be treated as having failed to comply with Section 125.

Windsor-related election changes will generally be effective as of the date other changes become effective under the plan rules. In addition, with respect to election changes made between June 26 and December 16, 2013, the IRS explained that a plan will not be treated as failing to meet the Code Section 125 requirements to the extent that coverage becomes effective no later than the later of: (i) the date that coverage would be added under the plan's usual procedures for change-in-status elections, or (ii) a reasonable period of time after December 16, 2013.

Notice 2014-1 states that if the employer is notified before the end of the plan year that includes December 16, 2013 (i.e., by December 31, 2013 for a calendar year plan) that a participant is married to his or her same-sex partner (who is covered under the plan), the employer must begin treating the employee contribution as a pre-tax salary reduction no later than the later of (i) the date that a change in legal marital status would be required to be reflected for income tax withholding purposes, or (ii) a reasonable period of time after December 16, 2013. Individuals may notify the employer of the marriage by making a mid-year election change to pay for coverage on a pre-tax basis (as permitted by the Notice) or by filing a revised Form W-4 reflecting the change in marital status.

To the extent that an employee paid for a same-sex spouse's health coverage on an after-tax basis, the guidance makes clear that, for the plan year including December 16 (and prior years for which the limitations period for filing a tax refund claim has not expired), the amounts paid by the employee for the spousal coverage are excluded from the employee's gross income and not subject to federal income and employment taxes, and an employee may seek a refund for taxes paid on such amounts.

Notice 2014-1 also provides that an employee may be reimbursed from his or her health care FSA for expenses incurred by a same-sex spouse during the 2013 plan year, even before the date of the Windsor decision (but no earlier than the date of the marriage). For example, an FSA with a calendar year plan year may reimburse expenses incurred by the spouse on or after January 1, 2013 (or the date of marriage, if later). The guidance further states that a same-sex spouse may be treated as covered by the FSA even if the participant initially elected coverage under a self-only FSA. These rules also apply to dependent care and adoption assistance FSAs.

Notice 2014-1 confirms that a same-sex married couple (married as of the last day of the taxable year) is subject to the joint deduction limit for contributions made to an HSA where either spouse elects family coverage under a high deductible health plan. If the spouses' combined elections would exceed the $6,450 limit for the 2013 taxable year, the guidance provides that contributions for one or both of the spouses may be reduced for the remaining portion of the tax year to avoid exceeding the limit. If the contributions already exceed $6,450, the excess may be distributed from the HSAs of one or both spouses no later than the tax return filing deadline for the spouses. Any excess that remains undistributed as of such date will be subject to excise taxes under the Code.

The guidance further provides that a same-sex married couple (married as of the last day of the taxable year) is subject to the maximum annual exclusion from gross income for married couples under a dependent care FSA as of the 2013 taxable year. If the couple's combined contribution elections exceed $5,000 (or $2,500 per spouse, if married filing separately) for 2013, their contributions may be reduced for the remainder of the year to avoid exceeding the limit. Otherwise, the excess contributions will be includable in their gross income and will be taxed.

If a cafeteria plan explicitly allows mid-year election changes due to a change in legal marital status, a plan amendment generally is not required in order to permit changes relating to same-sex spouses as a result of the Windsor decision. However, if the plan sponsor chooses to permit Windsor-related election changes that were not previously included in the plan document, the plan must be amended on or before the last day of the first plan year beginning on or after December 16, 2013. For calendar year plans, this means that the plan must be amended by December 31, 2014. The guidance specifically states that the amendment may be effective retroactive to the first day of the plan year that includes December 16, 2013, provided that the plan operates in compliance with the guidance contained in the Notice.

Federal District Court Tosses $450 Million Retiree Health Care Suit Against GM

By Todd Mobley and Stacey Cerrone

A federal district court in Michigan dismissed a breach-of-contract suit against General Motors over a $450 million payment for retiree medical benefits. Int'l Union, UAW v. Gen. Motors, LLC, No. 10-11366, 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 173793 (E.D. Mich. Dec. 10, 2013). As part of a settlement agreement with the UAW in 2007, General Motors promised to make a $450 million payment to a voluntary employee's beneficiary association (i.e., a trust established to mitigate medical costs for UAW-affiliated retirees). However, prior to making the $450 million payment, General Motors filed for chapter 11 protection. After emerging from bankruptcy, the newly restructured General Motors entered into a new agreement with the UAW (the "2009 Agreement"), which explicitly superseded all prior agreements between General Motors and the UAW regarding retiree medical benefits. The 2009 Agreement was silent on the $450 million payment obligation contained in the 2007 Agreement. When General Motors later refused to make the $450 million payment, the UAW sued for breach of the 2007 Agreement. Despite the complete absence of language in the 2009 Agreement as to the $450 million payment, the UAW argued that General Motors' $450 million obligation remained. According to the UAW, if the parties had wished to extinguish such a large obligation, they would have explicitly said so in the 2009 Agreement. The court disagreed, holding that the 2009 Agreement superseded the 2007 Agreement and explaining that General Motors assumed only the obligations contained in the 2009 Agreement. Essentially, the court found that the "UAW's efforts to turn the absence of language into language [was] reminiscent of the efforts to capture a 'will o' the wisp.'"

Footnotes

* Originally published by Bloomberg, BNA. Reprinted with permission.

1. Scott v. Family Dollar Stores, Inc., No. 12-1610, 2013 BL 287115 (4th Cir. Oct. 16, 2013) (allowing complaint to be amended to assert class claims for decisions involving management discretion; distinguished Wal-Mart based on amended allegations involving higher-level managers than those at issue in Wal-Mart).

2. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes, 131 S. Ct. 2541, 2553-56 (2011).

3. Id. at 2553-54

4. Id. at 2555-56.

5. 133 S. Ct. 1426 (2013).

6. Id. at 1430-31.

7. Id. at 1431, n.3.

8. Id.

9. Id. at 1433-35.

10. Id. at 1433.

11. Id.

12. Id. at 1441.

13. Id. at 1433-35.

14. Daubert v. Merrill Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 509 U.S. 579 (1993), is the seminal Supreme Court ruling setting forth the reliability standards that apply before expert evidence is admissible. See also Fed. R. Evid. 702.

15. Fed. R. Evid. 702; see also Daubert, 509 U.S. at 589-95.

16. The ruling by the Wal-Mart district court was an apt example of the prior standards, admitting a social framework analysis that could not answer with any degree of confidence the class issue; the district court did so because it thought Daubert did not apply at the class stage. The Supreme Court pointedly noted "we doubt that is so," and proceeded to eviscerate and dismiss this evidence as it decertified the class. See Wal-Mart, 131 S. Ct. at 2553-54. After Wal-Mart, many courts apply Daubert to the admissibility of expert analysis of class issues; perhaps more important, like Comcast, they require this evidence to be not just admissible but persuasive in carrying plaintiff's burden to show that Rule 23's requirements have been met. See, e.g., Comcast, 133 S. Ct. at 1433-35; Ellis v. Costco Wholesale Corp., 657 F.3d 970, 982 (9th Cir. 2011) (expert's testimony must be admissible under Daubert and persuasive on the class issues under the "rigorous analysis" standard applied to class certification); Pedroza v. PetSmart, Inc., (C.D. Cal. Jan. 28, 2013) (explaining and applying same).

17. Federal Judicial Center's Reference Manual on Scientific Evidence, 233-35 (3d Ed. 2011).

18. See 131 S. Ct. at 2554.

19. Reference Manual on Scientific Evidence, 233-35.

20. Id. at 262-64; see also Randall v. Rolls-Royce Corp., No. 1:06-cv-860-SEB-JMS (S.D. Ind. Mar. 12, 2010) (in gender discrimination claim over compensation in which managers had substantial discretion to adjust pay, expert's report failed to account for components of the compensation system such as merit increases, annual bonuses, and critical skills adjustments).

21. E.g., EEOC v. Bloomberg L.P., No. 07 Civ. 8383 (LAP), 2010 BL 31687 (S.D.N.Y. Aug. 31, 2010) (in pregnancy discrimination claim over leave, expert's report was irrelevant and unreliable because it failed to compare class members to other similarly situated Bloomberg employees who had also taken leave); Bolden v. Walsh Grp., No. 06 C 4104, 2012 BL 76095 (N.D. Ill. Mar. 30, 2012) (in race discrimination claim, the expert report was inadmissible because in coming up with labor market comparator to show disparities, it failed to take into account geography, commuting distance, ability and job interest).

22. See 131 S. Ct. at 2553-55; see also, e.g., Jones v. YMCA, No. 09 C 6437 (N.D. Ill. Sept. 5, 2013) (experts' research on unconscious bias based on millisecond word associations in a laboratory cannot be reliably applied to managers' decisions in the workplace; such an application has no social science research support, and ignores numerous differences, including that managers' decisions have consequences and there are accountability mechanisms that counteract any unconscious bias).

23. See Wal-Mart, 131 S. Ct. at 2561; cf., e.g., In re Taco Bell Wage & Hour Actions, No. 1:07-cv-01314-OWW-DLB., 2011 BL 244118 (E.D. Cal. Sept. 26, 2011) (to show class manageability under Rule 23(b)(3), plaintiff proposed an expert who would survey a sample to develop a statistical analysis of class liability and damages; court held expert's proposed method was too unreliable).

24. See 131 S. Ct. at 2555.

25. Id.

26. Id. at 2555-56.

27. 688 F.3d 893, 898 (7th Cir. 2012).

28. Id. at 894.

29. Id. at 896.

30. Id. Similarly, in Bell v. Lockheed Martin Corp., No. 08-6292 (RBK/AMD), 2011 BL 316158 (D.N.J. Dec. 14, 2011), plaintiffs alleged that Lockheed engaged in gender discrimination by promoting men more quickly than women who were equally, if not more, qualified for the respective positions. As in Wal-Mart, decisions regarding promotions and wage increases were made pursuant to the discretion of individual managers; however, the statistical analyses proposed by plaintiffs were aggregated based on company-wide data. The court found that because the statistical proofs proffered by plaintiffs were essentially the same as the proofs rejected in Wal-Mart, plaintiffs failed to establish commonality. Id. at *23-24.

31. 726 F.3d 372 (3d Cir. Aug. 12, 2013).

32. Id.

33. Id.

34. Id.

35. Id. But see Scott v. Family Dollar Stores, Inc., No. 12-1610, 2013 BL 287115 (4th Cir. Oct. 16, 2013) ("Wal-Mart is limited to the exercise of discretion by lower-level employees, as opposed to upper-level, top-management personnel.... Consequently, discretionary authority exercised by high-level corporate decision-makers, which is applicable to a broad segment of the corporation's employees, is more likely to satisfy the commonality requirement than the discretion exercised by low-level managers in Wal-Mart.").

36. No. CV 08-07919 GAF (PJW) (C.D. Cal. Nov. 23, 2011).

37. Id.

38. Id.

39. 255 F.R.D. 450, 454-55 (N.D. Ill. 2009).

40. Id. at 461-62.

41. Id. at 462.

42. Id. at 465; see also In re Taco Bell, 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 109169, at *18 (finding that failure to consider all facts underlying terminations of putative class members eliminates ability to opine on class-wide terminations).

43. Puffer, 255 F.R.D. at 461.

44. Bolden v. Walsh Grp., No. 06 C 4104, 2012 BL 76095 (N.D. Ill. Mar. 30, 2012) (in race discrimination claim the expert report was inadmissible because it failed to take into account how geography and commuting distance would affect job interest); Aliotta v. Bair, 614 F.3d 556, 568 (D.C. Cir. 2010) ("If [expert's] statistics do not control for [employee choice], they tell us nothing about why older employees took the buyouts, and are therefore not relevant to determining whether FDIC discriminated against them."); EEOC v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., 839 F.2d 302, 320-21, 324-26 (7th Cir. 1988) (same—statistics were flawed and failed to show discrimination when they failed to account for different interest between genders for commissioned sales position).

45. 133 S. Ct. at 1433 (internal quotation omitted).

46. No. 04-40132, 2009 BL 133763 (E.D. Mich. Mar. 31, 2009).

47. Id.

48. Id. at 6.

49. Id.

50. Id.

51. No. 1:06-cv-860-SEB-JMS (S.D. Ind. Mar. 12, 2010) aff'd 637 F.3d 818 (7th Cir. 2011).

52. Id. (explaining that Plaintiffs' expert "examined components of the Rolls-Royce compensation system other than base salaries, such as the merit increases, annual bonuses, and critical skills adjustments to employee salaries, and found no evidence of disparities adverse to women. Conveniently, that conclusion is not disclosed in his report.").

53. Id.

54. Id.

55. No. 1:10-cv-00911, 52 EBC 1965 (N.D. Ill. Nov. 15, 2011)(222 PBD, 11/17/11; 38 BPR 2142, 11/22/11).

56. Id.

57. Id. at *5.

58. Id.

59. 705 F.3d 370, 372 (8th Cir. 2013).

60. Id. at 374-76.

61. 476 F.3d 299, 39 EBC 2352 (5th Cir. 2007)(13 PBD, 1/22/07; 34 BPR 210, 1/23/07).

62. Id. at 315.

63. Id. at 315-16.

64. No. 1:10-cv-00911, 52 EBC 1965 (N.D. Ill. Nov. 15, 2011).

65. Id.

66. 633 F.3d 574, 586-87, 50 EBC 1801 (7th Cir. 2011)(16 PBD, 1/25/11; 38 BPR 220, 2/1/11). Cf. Abbott v. Lockheed Martin Corp., 725 F.3d 803, 813-14, 56 EBC 2352 (7th Cir. 2013)(154 PBD, 8/9/13; 40 BPR 1959, 8/13/13)(in case challenging investment in a 401(k) plan, finding that the plaintiffs' use of the Hueler Index as a method of measuring damages was a reasonable way of excluding uninjured persons from the class and limiting intra-class conflicts).

67. See In re Principal U.S. Property Account ERISA Litig., No. 4:10-cv-00198 at pp. 46-57, 2013 BL 282261 (S.D. Iowa Sept. 30, 2013)(198 PBD, 10/11/13; 40 BPR 2413, 10/15/13) (class members made individual investment choices in response to withdrawal restrictions that impacted who was in the class and who was harmed; plaintiff's claims also created conflicts between those who wanted higher liquidity versus those who wanted higher returns).

68. No. 3:05-cv-115, 49 EBC 2194 (D.N.D. May 7, 2010), amended by No. 3:05-cv-115 (D.N.D. Aug. 27, 2010). For cases raising similar issues outside the ERISA context, see Gilpin v. American Federation of State, County, & Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, 875 F.2d 1310, 1313 (7th Cir. 1989) (affirming decision to refuse to certify a class when different groups of employees had differing interests as to the remedies to be sought from a union), and United Independent Flight Officers v. United Air Lines, 756 F.2d 1274, 1284 (7th Cir. 1985) (affirming refusal to certify class when members had divergent and antagonistic interests regarding goals of the lawsuit and benefits sought).

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Proskauer's Employee Benefits, Executive Compensation & ERISA Litigation Practice Center

Proskauer Rose LLP

Eleven Times Square

New York

NY 10036-8299

UNITED STATES

Tel: 2129693000

Fax: 2129692900

E-mail: webmaster@proskauer.com

URL: www.proskauer.com

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Document BBPUB00020140122ea1m000e2

Federal Courts
African-American Managers Sought 10 Depositions Per Party; CIVIL PRACTICE

317 words
20 January 2014
The Connecticut Law Tribune
CONNLT
27
Volume 40; Issue 3
English
Copyright 2014 LexisNexis, a Division of Reed Elsevier, Inc. All Rights Reserved.    

CASE: Hannah v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc.

COURT: U.S. District Court

DOC. NO.: 3:12cv1361 • COURT OPINION BY: Fitzsimmons, J.

DATE: Jan. 10, 2014 • PAGES: 19

Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 30(a)(2)(A)(i) permits 10 depositions per side, as opposed to 10 depositions per party. In 2010, the defendant, Wal-Mart, underwent restructuring, and it discharged three managers in Connecticut. The managers, who were African-American, sued and alleged that the restructuring constituted a pretext for discrimination on the basis of race, in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. During discovery the plaintiffs maintained that they were entitled to 10 depositions per plaintiff. The District Court rejected the plaintiffs' request. "The Federal Rules presumptively limit the number of depositions that each side may conduct to ten," pursuant to the Eastern District of New York's 2002 decision, Sigala v. Spikouris. Although the plaintiffs are restricted to 10, the court granted permission to depose 15 witnesses. Four depositions may take place in Pennsylvania, five depositions may take place in Connecticut, two depositions may take place in Arkansas, one deposition may take place in Tennessee and one in North Carolina, between February 10 and March 10, 2014. The plaintiffs shall coordinate the depositions of two other witnesses with the depositions of the other witnesses. The plaintiffs must request court permission, to depose any additional witnesses. Wal-Mart claimed it has produced 1,000 documents and that the plaintiffs have not responded to requests for production. The plaintiffs objected that their deadline for production has not passed. The court found that the plaintiffs have not produced a single document. The court ordered the plaintiffs to serve responses to requests for production and privilege logs within 30 days. The plaintiffs will not be entitled to an extension, absent good cause.

Document CONNLT0020140120ea1k0001k



Fourth Circuit Argues With Itself Over Dukes’ Application

Gregory Mersol      
1,025 words
20 January 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd      

While commentators can, and often do, debate fine points regarding the technical elements of a class action claim, the result in a given case is often dictated by a more fundamental concern.  That issue is whether the judge views class action treatment as an exception to the general rule or, instead, as a fundamental right. 

Just two years ago, in Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes, 131 S. Ct   2541 (2011), a majority of the Supreme Court came down on the side of viewing the class action requirements more strictly, and class action treatment to be the exception rather than the rule.  But even the opinions in that case reflected this divide, with the dissent largely taking the view that courts should enforce Rule 23's requirements more leniently to allow more and greater class action claims.

A recent Fourth Circuit case reflects that this unspoken debate continues and also raises troubling issues regarding a court's candor over whether and why a particular case should be afforded class action treatment. Scott v. Family Dollar Stores, Inc., Case No. 12-1610 (4th Cir. Oct. 16, 2013).

It is more difficult than it should be to piece together the facts in Scott because the majority and dissent vary so widely in their description of the case they are reviewing, but at its core the case concerned class-wide claims against the Family Dollar Stores chain alleging that it discriminated against women in compensation nationwide.  So far, the case looks like Dukes, right?

That was probably deliberate.  The action was originally filed in 2008, at a time when the Ninth Circuit had already held that the Dukes case could proceed as a class.  Emboldened by that ruling, the plaintiffs apparently patterned their complaint based on the claims in Dukes and claimed that the company's decentralized practices and reliance on subjective criteria ultimately discriminated against women.  In pleadings filed before the Supreme Court announced its Dukes decision, the plaintiffs even described their claims as being "virtually identical" to those in Dukes.  The plaintiffs certainly cannot be faulted for doing so, assuming the allegations were true, and followed the logical course of patterning their case after one that had, at least as of then, proven successful.

But, of course, the Supreme Court reversed in Dukes in 2011 and the plaintiffs were then saddled with their own complaint patterned after now unsuccessful claims.  Without explanation, the plaintiffs reversed course and sought to recast their complaint completely to disavow their prior allegations and to aver the types of centralized decisions that a post-Dukes class action would require. 

The District Court found that the initial complaint could not survive post-Dukes scrutiny and also rejected the plaintiffs' change of course and refused to allow the proposed amended pleading.  The plaintiffs appealed.

The court of appeals was deeply divided.  A 3-judge panel of the Fourth Circuit issued a 30-page majority opinion, 2-page concurrence, and a 32-page dissent.  The language used by both sides was so strong that at least one judge had to comment about his respect and admiration for the others notwithstanding their disputes over the merits of the case before them.  The two sides agreed that the initial complaint could not be certified as a class - which was to be expected as it was based on the complaint adjudicated in Dukes.  Where they departed was whether the district court erred in denying leave to file the requested amendment.

The majority downplayed the allegations of the initial complaint and largely characterized the proposed amendment as a mere change in theory. It found that the district court should have permitted the amendment, permitted the parties to develop a fuller record, and then later reviewed the factual allegations more closely once it had that record. 

Unless the dissent manufactured the quotes it cited from the initial complaint, however, the majority, to put it politely, was fudging.  The dissent quoted and cited at length passages in which the plaintiffs stressed the issues of decentralized control and subjective decision making in their initial complaint.  The dissent made the compelling case that the plaintiffs were abandoning their prior allegations and proposing entirely new and different factual allegations to fit within the requirements of Dukes.  The dissent pointed out that even the new allegations were problematic and reflected little more than the fact that the defendant was a nationwide employer that, like virtually every other nationwide employer, used salary bands for various positions.

It's hard to square the majority's analysis with the facts.  It may be that the majority was giving the plaintiffs a judicial Mulligan. It may have decided the case based on a view that the putative class should not be penalized for cleverly pleading a class based on another case, only to have it whisked away by an intervening Supreme Court decision.  It is troubling, however, for a court to take such a cynical view or to gloss over the plaintiffs' abrupt change of position on factual issues for purely tactical reasons.  As even the majority opinion states, however, its decision will not be the last in the case, and the district court may very well deny certification once the record is more fully developed.  The problem with that view is that the litigation, already in its sixth year, will continue with likely difficult and expensive discovery along the way.

The Bottom Line:  Courts continue to grapple with Dukes issues and basic disagreements over whether a class action is (a) a right or (b) an exception to the general rule that individual cases are to be resolved on their own merits.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Mr Gregory Mersol

BakerHostetler

PNC Center

1900 East Ninth Street, Suite 3200

Cleveland

OH 44114

UNITED STATES

Tel: 2166210200

Fax: 2166960740

E-mail: mkohuth@bakerlaw.com

URL: www.bakerlaw.com

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Document BBPUB00020140120ea1k000rt



Cullen v. State Farm – The Ohio Supreme Court Returns To Rule 23 Issues

John Lewis      
904 words
13 January 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd      

On November 5, 2013, the Supreme Court of Ohio adopted the class certification principles announced in the U.S. Supreme Court's decisions in Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes and Comcast v. Behrend.  In Cullen v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co. , __ Ohio St.3d __, 2013-Ohio-4733, the Ohio high court held that courts must base class-certification decisions on evidence, not merely on a plaintiff's allegations, and established that the standards applicable to evaluating the propriety of class certification in federal courts also apply under the Ohio rules.

Although Cullen was not an employment case, its impact will be felt in employment cases statewide and will likely influence decisions in employment elsewhere.  The Cullen ruling amplifies the court's opinion in Stammco v. United Telephone Co. of Ohio, 136 Ohio St.3d 231, 2013-Ohio-309.  The Stammco opinion was discussed here in a July 19, 2013 blog article.  Together, Cullen and Stammco align Ohio law with the more exacting federal standards for class certification and mark a significant victory for class defendants throughout the state, regardless of the area of law involved.

In Cullen, the Ohio Supreme Court reversed the trial and appellate courts' decisions certifying a class, holding that both lower courts erred by failing to apply a "rigorous analysis" of the Civil Rule 23 requirements.  As the opinion reiterated, a "rigorous analysis" must consider the evidence relevant to the Rule 23 factors even if that evidence also bears upon the underlying merits.  Accordingly, the Court held that the trial and appellate courts erred by assuming that the plaintiff's theory of the case was accurate, rather than examining the relevant evidence.

Further, the Court rejected the plaintiff's proposed Rule 23(B)(2) (the Ohio counterpart to federal Rule 23(b)(2)), injunctive-relief class, for two reasons: first, because monetary damages were not merely incidental to the declaratory relief sought; and second, because prospective relief would not benefit all class members.  The Court thus held that Ohio courts cannot certify Rule 23(B)(2) classes seeking declaratory relief intended merely to lay a foundation for subsequent individual determinations of liability.

Additionally, the Cullen Court ratcheted up the standard of proof required to certify a class.  While it did not expressly require a Daubert analysis of expert opinions offered to support class certification, the Court implicitly approved of and performed such an analysis in rejecting the plaintiff's experts' opinions.  The plaintiff had proffered expert testimony in support of its argument that there was common proof that windshield repairs failed to return all windshields to pre-loss condition. The Court held that Cullen's experts "asserted that the repair could not restore a windshield to pre-loss condition, but neither had sufficient evidentiary foundation for those opinions."  Id. at ¶ 47. And without evidentiary foundation, those opinions could not carry the plaintiff's burden of showing that common issues predominated over individualized issues.

The Ohio Supreme Court in Cullen amplified the Stammco opinion decided on July 16, 2013.  Stammco held that "at the certification stage in a class-action lawsuit, a trial court must undertake a rigorous analysis, which may include probing of the merits of the plaintiff's claim, but only for the purpose of determining whether the plaintiff has satisfied the prerequisites of Civ. R. 23." 136 Ohio St.3d 231, syllabus. Now that Ohio's Rule 23 is in line with prevailing interpretations of Federal Rule 23, class certification decisions in Ohio courts should be based upon a rigorous analysis of the evidence that is in the record — and not just upon the plaintiff's allegations or theories.

As noted above, the reasoning in Cullen was premised, in part, on the U.S. Supreme Court decision in Wal-Mart, which arose from a massive employment discrimination class action.  The Cullen court quoted approvingly from Wal-Mart on the standards for 23(B)(2) certification:

"[It] applies only when a single injunction or declaratory judgment would provide relief to each member of the class.  It does not authorize class certification when each individual class member would be entitled to a different injunction or declaratory judgment against the defendant."

131 S. Ct. at 2557. 

Thus, an important U.S. Supreme Court employment class action decision has provided the impetus to update Ohio class action jurisprudence and aid Ohio employers in their defense of class action litigation.

BakerHostetler represented State Farm, the Appellant in Cullen. 

The Bottom Line:  The Cullen opinion, along with Stammco, updated Ohio class action jurisprudence and reiterated that a trial court must conduct a "rigorous analysis" at the certification stage to determine if a case meets Rule 23's requirements.  The opinion also recognized that a higher standard of scrutiny should be applied to expert opinions offered to support class certification.  Hence, Cullen will be a great benefit to employers defending class actions.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Mr John Lewis

BakerHostetler

PNC Center

1900 East Ninth Street, Suite 3200

Cleveland

OH 44114

UNITED STATES

Tel: 2166210200

Fax: 2166960740

E-mail: mkohuth@bakerlaw.com

URL: www.bakerlaw.com

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Document BBPUB00020140113ea1d000eo

News; News
Seyfarth Shaw releases annual workplace class action lawsuit report

By Alexis Harrison      
530 words
9 January 2014
Inside Counsel
INCOUNS
English
Copyright 2014 Inside Counsel. A Summit Business Media publication. All rights reserved      

Seyfarth Shaw LLP’s 10th annual Workplace Class Action Litigation Report reveals new challenges ahead for employers facing workplace class action litigation. The survey conducted by international law firm Seyfarth is the “sole compendium” in the country dedicated exclusively to workplace class action lawsuits.

The 803-page report is available via ebook and serves as the “go-to” research and resource guide for business and their corporate counsel facing litigation.

This year, Seyfarth produced its largest report ever, analyzing 1,123 class action rulings on a circuit-by-circuit and state-by-state basis to capture “key themes” from last year and emerging litigation trends emerging for the coming year.

One of the biggest  developments from 2013 report was Wal-Mart Stores, Inc v Dukes, which continues to have a wide-ranging impact all class actions lawsuits pending in both federal and state courts. In Dukes, according to bloomberglaw.com, the Supreme Court reversed an en banc ruling of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit that gave the green light to a sprawling nationwide class action that encompassed 1.5 million female Wal-Mart employees.

The report also focuses on the sharp importance of Rule 23, which outlines the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, which details judges, attorneys, plaintiffs and defendants for conducting a class action lawsuit. The report also looks at:

* The increasing of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission focus on high-stakes, big-impact litigation

* An overall decrease in the number of discrimination cases being settled before trial

* A continuing rising tide of Wage & Hour cases

* Fallout from the Supreme Court's first Class Action Fairness Act ruling in Standard Fire Insurance Co v. Knowles

* Additions to the increasing number of rulings allowing employers to use arbitration agreements to manage class action risks

* Rapid strategic changes due to rulings like Comcast Corporation v. Behrends

"In the past two years, we have seen a combination of Supreme Court decisions help create a defensive barrier for employers in class action cases," said Seyfarth's Gerald L. Maatman, Jr., co-chair of its Class Action Defense group and author of the Report. "Enough time has passed, however, that plaintiff lawyers have begun to breach this barrier with new theories and approaches and, combined with increasing and aggressive government enforcement litigation, employers may once again find themselves facing bet-the-company-type class actions in 2014."

Divided into detailed chapters on leading class action settlements, federal law rulings, and state law rulings, the substantive areas examined by the Report include: Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; EEOC pattern or practice cases; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act; the Fair Labor Standards Act; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act; state law rulings in employment law, wage and hour, and breach of contract cases; key CAFA rulings, and other class action rulings with significance to Rule 23 and/or workplace litigation.

Related reading:

 Businesses must be more aware of human trafficking risks

 Labor and employment firm Littler continues Latin American expansion

 Wage-and-hour lawsuit wave to continue into 2014

Document INCOUNS020140109ea1900007



New Poll Finds Strong U.S. Consumer Support for Alaska Seafood, Disapproval for Marine Stewardship Council Policies

868 words
8 January 2014
06:55 PM
PR Newswire (U.S.)
PRN
English
Copyright ©    2014    PR Newswire Association LLC.    All Rights Reserved.      


As Walmart executives meet with Alaska fishermen in Juneau, new findings from Alaska Salmon Now reinforce calls to end Walmart's discriminatory MSC-only policy 
 

ANCHORAGE, Alaska, Jan. 8, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- A new nationwide poll of U.S. seafood consumers reveals resounding support for Alaska seafood as the gold-standard of healthy, sustainable seafood, with 66% rating its quality very high, and an overwhelming 97% viewing it as more sustainable or as-sustainable as other seafood. The poll was commissioned by Alaska Salmon Now, a grassroots collection of fishermen, consumers, and other representatives of the Alaska seafood industry that has advocated for Walmart to revise its misguided policy to only purchase seafood certified by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC), a private European organization.

Much of Alaska's salmon industry has voluntarily opted out of MSC's costly and questionable certification process due to concerns about the organization's increasingly high-priced and monopolistic business practices, instead opting to showcase its long-standing commitment to sustainability by adopting the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization-based (UN FAO) Responsible Fisheries Management (RFM) program for sustainability certification.

In addition to showing that Alaska remains the premium name in sustainable seafood, the poll found that that there is equal if not more consumer comfort with the UN FAO-based RFM certification program over MSC, whose policy of conditional certification of unsustainable fisheries was met with widespread disapproval.

Key results include:


   1. 66% of U.S. seafood consumers rate the quality of Alaska seafood very 
      high (8-10 on a 0-10 scale) and a nearly unanimous 97% consider it more 
      sustainable (52%) or as sustainable (45%) as other seafood. 0% rate it 
      low quality (0-3 on a 0-10 scale). 
 
   2. Alaskan-caught seafood is preferred to Russian-caught seafood (one of the 
      most likely replacements for Alaska salmon in Walmart stores as a result 
      of MSC-only policies) by an overwhelming 87% to 1%, with 12% having no 
      preference. 
 
   3. 77% of U.S. seafood consumers have no preference when MSC and RFM are 
      offered as alternative certification options, with RFM enjoying a 14% to 
      9% advantage over MSC from the remaining 23% of consumers. 
 
   4. When offered as alternatives, 40% of seafood consumers prefer 
      certification based on UN FAO standards versus only 19% based on 
      standards set by a "private nonprofit organization". 31% have no 
      preference. 
 
   5. Asked about ten seafood characteristics that might justify a 10% price 
      premium, the three highest-rated characteristics seafood consumers chose 
      are: a) caught in the wild (46%); b) certified sustainable (40%); and 
      Alaska-caught (36%).  27% said regulation by NOAA would justify such a 
      premium, while certification by RFM and MSC were supported by 18% and 15% 
      respectively. (Respondents were allowed to choose multiple 
      characteristics). 

Additionally, the poll highlighted widespread consumer disapproval for MSC's policy of certifying unsustainable fisheries that are on a path towards sustainability (known as "conditional certification"). A majority 53% of consumers believe only fisheries that are already fully sustainable should be certified as sustainable, whereas only 15% believe that fisheries that are taking clear steps towards sustainability should be certified as sustainable.

The findings are released as a number of senior Walmart executives are visiting Juneau, Alaska to meet with top government and seafood industry leaders, as well as Alaska fishermen, to discuss its sustainability policy. Walmart had previously committed at a U.S. Senate Hearing in September 2013 to provide a response by the end of the year as to whether the RFM certification program would meet its internal requirements, yet it has failed to provide an answer.

Alaska Senator Mark Begich wrote to Walmart CEO Doug McMillan yesterday to inform him that "I am still keenly interested in the answer to that question, as are producers of quality Alaska seafood". He added, "Alaska's commitment to seafood sustainability is second to none. Our management is science based, well documented, regulated by a transparent process, and has a lengthy record that attests to its success. I believe it is important for Walmart to sell U.S. sourced, sustainable seafood regardless of whether suppliers choose to pay for a third party label.

The online survey of a census-representative sample (n=1,031[1]) of U.S. seafood consumers was conducted by Washington, DC based pollster Prime Group between December 17 and December 23, 2013. The margin of error is +/- 3.1 percentage points at the 95% confidence level.

For Media Inquiries Please Contact alaskasalmonnow@gmail.com.

About Alaska Salmon Now

"Alaska Salmon Now" is a diverse grassroots organization comprised of American consumers, hardworking fishing families from across Alaska, and other interested parties who are demanding Walmart reverse its controversial sustainability policy that has hurt American jobs and consumers seeking access to the world's gold standard of sustainable seafood, Alaska salmon.

About Prime Group

Prime Group has been conducting innovative and reliable public opinion and market research in the U.S. and abroad for more than twenty years. Our clients have included U.S. presidential candidates, Fortune 100 companies, and leading nonprofits.

SOURCE Alaska Salmon Now

Document PRN0000020140109ea190000a



Alaska Fishermen to Walmart: "Why Didn't You Keep Your Promise to Congress?"

752 words
6 January 2014
06:10 PM
PR Newswire (U.S.)
PRN
English
Copyright ©    2014    PR Newswire Association LLC.    All Rights Reserved.      


More rallies promised in 2014 as Walmart misses end-of-year deadline to end discriminatory policy and acknowledge sustainability of Alaska salmon 
 

ANCHORAGE, Alaska, Jan. 6, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Alaska fishermen are pledging to take further action to hold Walmart accountable for its ongoing failure to keep its promise to revise by the end of 2013 its outdated and misguided policy that is shutting out a large proportion of sustainable Alaska salmon from its stores.

On September 24(th) 2013, Walmart pledged at a U.S. Senate Hearing to review by end of year its policy to only purchase seafood certified sustainable by MSC, a private European organization that much of Alaska's salmon industry voluntarily severed ties with due to concerns about the organization's increasingly high-priced and questionable business practices.

However, with the end of the year having arrived, the largest grocery supplier in the U.S. has provided no public explanation as to why it continues to refuse to purchase sustainable Alaska salmon--a decision which is placing at risk countless hard-working jobs in Alaska's seafood industry, which contributes an estimated $16 billion to the national economy. As a result, "Alaska Salmon Now", a grassroots collection of fishermen, consumers, and other representatives of the Alaska seafood industry that has advocated for Walmart to do the right thing via public rallies, social media campaigns, and other efforts, is promising further action unless Walmart reverses its policy.

"It is unacceptable for Walmart to make a promise to Congress and then not keep it," said John Renner, Vice President, Cordova District Fisherman United. "Walmart has rightfully praised sustainable Alaska salmon, yet their misguided 'MSC-or-nothing' policy continues to negatively affect real American workers and consumers. Walmart's policy is bad for America, Alaska, and health conscious individuals everywhere. All we want is for Walmart to do what's right and recognize what countless capable and qualified organizations already do: that the gold standard for sustainability is here in Alaska."

Recent decisions by the US federal agency General Services Administration (GSA) and Sodexo, the primary supplier of food services to the US military, to modify their "MSC-only" policies leave Walmart as the only major purchaser of seafood in the US with such a policy.

"MSC-only policies are unfairly hurting American jobs and consumers and playing into the hands of a monopolistic self-interested organization," said Greg Gabriel, Executive Director of the Northwest & Alaska Seiners Association. "Alaska has proven time and time again that our fisheries have been sustainable long before MSC, and retailers should be proud to provide sustainable Alaska salmon to their customers."

In changing their policies, GSA and Sodexo recently joined with the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) based Responsible Fisheries Management (RFM) certification, the State of Alaska, and most of the rest of the world in recognizing that Alaska's salmon fisheries are sustainably managed.

Aside from Walmart, traditional buyers continue their purchases of Alaska salmon with or without the MSC endorsement, leaning instead on the decades-long track record of Alaska's sustainable management program--which includes extensive local, state, and federal oversight-- and the RFM endorsement.

Worldwide, Alaska has consistently been recognized for its sustainable management success. Since its inception, MSC had consistently recognized the excellence and effectiveness of Alaska's fisheries management system, ranking it above programs in British Columbia and Russia and calling it "among the most comprehensive and intensive of any fishery in the world". The EDF Seafood Selector named Alaskan salmon "Eco-Friendly and Ocean Best". The National Marine Fisheries Service's most recent annual report to Congress on the status of U.S. fish stocks indicates the overwhelming majority of stocks are healthy, however only a handful are MSC certified. The Pew Charitable Trust and Ocean Conservancy stated in a recent report that "success in managing and rebuilding America's fisheries ranks among the leading achievements of marine resource management in the world."

For Media Inquiries, please contact John Renner at 1-907-632-2536 or Greg Gabriel at 1-907-394-4604.

About Alaska Salmon Now!

"Alaska Salmon Now!" is a diverse grassroots organization comprised of American consumers, hardworking fishing families from across Alaska, and other interested parties who are demanding Walmart reverse its controversial sustainability policy that has hurt American jobs and consumers seeking access to the world's gold standard of sustainable seafood, Alaska salmon.

SOURCE Alaska Salmon Now!

Document PRN0000020140107ea170000b

X APPEAL

Paris Lees 
1,597 words
1 January 2014
Gay Times
GTIMES
46-56
ISSN:09506101
English
© 2014 Gay Times. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved. 

"My love muscle," Sam quips with a cheeky smile. We've just asked the strapping 19-year-old what his favourite body part is. "That wasn't actually my answer! I don't know, probably my abs. I get a lot of compliments on my stomach." He's topless as he says this and it's kind of hard not to look at his snail trail. GT remains professional. Just. Could we tempt him to do one of our naked shoots? "I'll have to have a think about that! I've got my Asda George boots with me, the lads reckon they look quite expensive." We might make an exception to our "totally naked" rule if it means seeing him in nothing but a pair of boots. Even Asda ones.

The girls loved Sam on X Factor, a phenomenon he describes as "every teenage boy's dream". Not every teenage boy, Sam! "For most of it I was in and out of buildings... now I'm starting to see the full effect of it, if I go down the high street or anywhere, people come and say hello." His verdict on The X Factor rollercoaster is "surreal" - from start to finish. "I went to a red carpet event and I thought the security guy was going to say "You're meant to be on the other side of the fence mate' and grab me. But he didn't." Over the past 12 months he's partied with his idols Oily Murs and Robbie Williams, been to St Tropez and generally had a blast, but he's determined to make sure this "is not the end of the story, just the chapter".

We reckon his smoking hot cover shoot for us could win him a brand new following of male fans - and if it does, he'll take that as a compliment, thank you very much. He made lots of gay friends at Sylvia Young Theatre School and condemns homophobic lyrics like those recently used by James Arthur: "You've got to think about what you say before you say it. And I don't think he did, basically. I met him and he seemed like a nice guy, but yeah, he's obviously done some stupid stuff." Sam used to be in a band managed by "incredibly creative" Geri Halliwell and, in true boy band tradition, there was one gay member. "I'd known him for two years and because we'd slept in a bed together and stuff like that, he was really worried about telling me and I was like, 'coolman, that's fine!' He was really worried about it, bless him."

What "stuff like that" Sam? A look of panic crosses his face before he assures us he is 100% straight. Sorry lads. We do get him to admit to a (purely platonic) man crush though: "Oily Murs. Yes. He's a lad, I love him. And Tom Hardy." GT points out that he may have to join the queue for Mr Hardy. "If I was in a film, I'd want to play one of his characters. He's cool, isn't he?" But what about his idol Robbie, would he marry him? "I would!" So that's Robbie AND Tom? "Yeah, but if you choose two you've got to choose one musician and actor, you know?" Seems like sound logic from where we're sitting. Although, technically, Oily takes the potential husband count up to three.

Joking aside, Robbie provides Sam with genuine inspiration: "He never had the best voice, and there were so many things where people were like, 'oh you don't have this, you don't have that', and he made the most amazing solo career ever. I read his book and he said 'If you're deluded enough to think you can do it, you can' and I think that's great. So I think I just have this positive attitude and that helped me a long way through the competition." It's just as well. Though he describes Louis Walsh as "lovely and lively" and "much funnier in real life", he didn't get on with all the judges. Gary Barlow regularly criticised him: "I didn't let it get to me for more than ten minutes at a time. I'm a positive person, I literally turn it around and think right, come back fighting next week if I get through. I'm one of those speedballs, punch it and it comes back quicker."

Someone who definitely did warm to Sam was 16-year-old Tamera. We play word association with him and when we read out Tamera's name he responds instantly with "interviews". He's sharp, this boy. The media tried to whip the romance into something bigger than it was, but Sam insists the reality was far more mundane: "We just get on really well. We lived together for, like, two months and kept in touch after I left. The thing is, we're so busy, I don't know whether it could really work."

He's fully aware that the next few months are crucial to securing his career: "I've written my own music since I was 13, I've done my groundwork. I used to gig all around the country, for free, in my clapped out estate with my PA system in the back, just trying to get exposure. Now it's about keeping that up with an opportunity I've been given." The next opportunity, of course, is The X Factor Tom:: "I absolutely can't wait! Every musician, every artist anywhere in the world has a dream, and a part of that dream, whether it's the whole dream or not, is to go on tour. This is when lean show you what I do with my own music, how I perform on stage, and I hope that everyone sticks by me and gets to see all that."

Part of his determination comes from being bullied at school: "I was, like, this tiny little blond-haired, blue-eyed kid - probably a little bit too cocky for my own good - but only because that was the only way I knew how to stand up for myself. At one point, one of the older kids, when I was in year seven, he held me down while his mate kicked me in the face with a football boot and I had a big gash down my face." Bullying can often be down to envy, he says, or sometimes people do it just because they can: "People mistake your niceties for weakness, and that won't change me being nice, ever. Because if someone's nasty to me, I'll have something to say, but otherwise what's the point in being nasty to anybody? It takes way too much effort."

So what advice would he offer to anyone getting bullied? "You've just got to keep fighting and stick up for yourself, because if you don't you become a target... but the main thing isn't to the people who are suffering but more to the people who don't look up and realise it, those people's friends. People commit suicide, they start cutting or taking drugs and you're like, well this is changing that person's life. Just because they are who they are. And I don't believe anybody should be discriminated against because of who they are."

He recently befriended a 'Callafan' online, who was getting bullied so badly she tried to kill herself. He's since met with the girl and her family, and she's doing better, but there are many more young people going through similar struggles. He tells us about one Callafan who died while he was doing X Factor: "She actually took her own life because she was bullied at school. And it just kind of shocked me, you know? I got bullied badly and I'm the sort of person, luckily enough for myself, that I can take it on and go, 'you know, I'll come out on top'. But so many people aren't, everybody's made of different stuff - and I tell you what, it does knock it out of you even if you are made like that."

There's a lovely depth to Sam and we ask him if music is what gives his life meaning. "Music will always be the focus, but recently I've done a lot of stuff for the Teenage Cancer Trust. I met a guy who was 21, who just literally a couple of days before had asked his girlfriend who has cancer to marry him. And all the things we worry about, there's so much more to life! Music's absolutely the most important thing, but my family are really important to me, though I probably wouldn't have said that if I hadn't have been through that in the past couple of days."

GT's allergies have kicked in by this point. Quick, compassionate and ambitious - Sam Callahan is so much more than a pretty face. "I hope people can see me for who I am now that I'm out of the competition. I've got a lot to give and there's a lot to come from me that wasn't shown." Hang on, is he talking about his love muscle again? *

Sam Callahan will be appearing on The X Factor 2014 Live Tour, booklngsdlrect.com, @samcallahan94

Document GTIMES0020170623ea11000xm



From Paula Deen To Peekaboo Pants: Biggest Retail Flops Of 2013

Clare O'Connor, Forbes Staff      
1,067 words
31 December 2013
Forbes.com
FBCOM
English
© 2013 Forbes LLC      

As 2013 wheezes towards the finish line, we at Forbes are looking back at the stories that shaped the year.

Here on the retail beat, the past 12 months have been punctuated by some exciting, game-changing highs, like Burberry CEO Angela Ahrendts’ new Apple gig.

We witnessed appalling lows, like the Bangladesh garment factory fire that killed thousands and put pressure on fast-fashion firms like Walmart and H&M to fix their supply chains. For more on the latter, see Forbes contributor Walter Loeb’s list of the tragedies that changed the retail landscape this year.

There have also been plenty of embarrassing goofs, PR gaffes and moments of foot-in-mouth idiocy this past year. In fact, predictably, the retail stories hogging the headlines in 2013 seemed to be the ones resulting in mealy-mouthed apologies or backpedaling.

Here are the cringe-worthy faux pas that stand out the most, in no particular order:

Paula Deen’s Racism Rift

The summer of 2013 was not kind to TV chef Paula Deen, she of the folksy banter and Southern-fried menu. In a deposition for a workplace discrimination suit, Deen admitted that she’d used racist language and tolerated racist jokes in one of her restaurants. Her lucrative business partnerships and endorsement deals evaporated one by one despite a teary Today Show apology. Walmart cut its ties with the chef, as did smaller companies like pharma firm Novo Nordisk, for whom she’d shilled a diabetes drug.

Lululemon’s See-through Pants Saga…

In March, cult workout-wear brand Lululemonmade an embarrassing and costly announcement. The Canadian company recalled a whopping 17% of its yoga pants (price: $72 to $98) after discovering they were too sheer, resulting in some bad “bottom line” puns in the press. The outfitters earned plaudits for their handling of the recall, but it was a black eye for a brand with normally faultless PR. The year could’ve ended on a positive note for the yoga giants. Alas, their founder opened his mouth.

…And Lululemon’s Fat Thighs Fiasco

Confronted about this spring’s costly product recall during a TV interview, Lululemon’s billionaire founder Chip Wilson stumbled through an answer, blaming not Lululemon’s black Luon material for being too sheer but instead women’s thighs and their tendency to touch on occasion. “Quite frankly, some women’s bodies just actually don’t work,” the Vancouver-based former surfer explained. “It’s about the rubbing through the thighs,” said Wilson, and “how much pressure is there.” Wrong answer, Chip. Cue the weepy YouTube apology video.

McDonald's McMess

Thankfully, McDonald’s will start 2014 with a (relatively) clean PR slate after a series of idiotic gaffes that highlighted their workers’ low wages this past year. As Forbes contributor Laura Shin noted in her extensive coverage of the embarrassing incidents, the world’s largest restaurant chain drew groans for offering its employees a sample budget — which would’ve been fine, except that it served to show the impossibility of living on McDonald’s wages. Its McResource site went on to offer advice on how much its staffers, many of whom are paid minimum wage, should tip their pool cleaners and nannies. The burger purveyors have now shuttered the ridiculed website. 

Abercrombie & Fitch’s Fat-Shaming

Abercrombie & Fitch CEO Mike Jeffriesweathered a spate of bad publicity this past spring, when some ill-advised comments from a 2006 interview found new life on the internet. He’d candidly suggested the teen retail chain’s clothes were only for the thin and attractive in the seven-year-old Salon piece, igniting a social media frenzy when resurrected in a widely-read Business Insider blog post. At the time, he apologized profusely (well, sort of. He regretted that his words were misinterpreted and caused offense). Six months later, the company capitulated and announced plus sizes would soon be on offer — a move decried as “desperate” given Abercrombie’s perilous financial state: November marked its seventh quarterly fall in same-store sales in a row.

Barilla Pasta’s LGBT Letdown

As Forbes contributor Laura Heller succinctly put it in September: “I pity the fool who messes with the purchasing power of the LGBT community.” Italian pasta company Barilla did just that when its CEO told a radio host he’d never market directly to gay couples, preferring instead “classic” families with a woman at the helm. German competitor Bertolli lost no time presenting itself as an LGBT-friendly option, as told by AdWeek, posting a photo and caption that translates to “pasta and love for all” on its Facebook page and resurrecting a commercial from 2011 featuring gay couples.

Walmart’s Social Media Melee

To take advantage of the biggest shopping week of the year, the world’s largest retail chain opened on Thanksgiving, registering 10 million transactions between 6pm and 10pm that day alone. Walmart CEO Bill Simon appeared on breakfast TV the following morning, describing the store chain’s early Black Friday sales as “bigger, better, faster, cheaper and safer than ever.” Twitter users could be forgiven for contesting that final descriptor. Overnight on Thanksgiving, the hashtag #WalmartFights started trending across the U.S., according to social media tracker TrendsMapUSA. Shoppers at Walmart stores in a handful of states uploaded photos as well as YouTube and Vine videos showing violence, injuries and arrests during the retailer’s first few hours of sales.

Cracker Barrel’s Duck Dynasty Flip-Flop

I think we can safely call Cracker Barrel’s response to the Phil Robertson scandal a clusterduck. The Southern restaurant chain became the first major retailer to pull some Duck Dynasty products off its shelves in late December in response to cast member Phil Robertson’s now-notorious anti-gay GQ interview. Cue a barrage of tweets, emails, and calls from Duck Dynasty fans to the powers that be at Cracker Barrel, not to mention threats of a boycott. A day later, the 625-outlet comfort food chain capitulated and announced it would resume selling Duck Dynasty products.

What have I missed? Leave your suggestions in the comment section.

Inside Duck Dynasty's $400 Million Camouflage Empire

Lululemon suffered from see-through pants and a founder with foot-in-mouth disease in 2013.      

Document FBCOM00020140129e9cv000gu

Search Summary

 All of these words

     At least one of these words
discrimination discriminatory discriminate discriminates discriminated discriminating harassment
     None of these words

     This exact phrase

     Date
12/28/2013 to 02/26/2014
     Source
All Sources
     Author
All Authors
     Company
Walmart Inc
     Subject
All Subjects
     Industry
All Industries
     Region
All Regions
     Language
English
     Results Found
22
     Timestamp
16 June 2023 10:30 AM
    
