 
•	Walmart suspends seafood supplier over working 'violations'
•	How Wal-Mart Is Making the World More Feminist
•	Walmart supply workers complain of mistreatment by company's contractors
•	WALMART. Business by committee
•	Greg Kehoe: From The Hague to Arkansas and Mexico
•	The 20 Million
•	Nearly 2,000 Wal-Mart Women File EEOC Discrimination Charges Against Retailer
•	A year after 'Wal-Mart,' class actions not dead yet; District court judges are carefully parsing the Supreme Court's opinion in the cas...
•	Wal-Mart faces second round of gender bias suit
•	Doubts cast over Wal-Mart suit
•	Wal-Mart may block suit by employees.
•	UPDATE 1-Judge casts doubt on Wal-Mart gender lawsuit
•	Nearly 2,000 Wal-Mart Women File EEOC Discrimination Charges Against Retailer
•	LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
•	Wal-Mart Settles EEOC Religious Discrimination Suit
•	NATION [Derived Headline]
•	Industry Execs Woo Investors
•	Industry Execs Woo Investors
•	Walmart Sued Over P.A. Announcement Telling Black Shoppers To Leave Store
•	Walmart Sued by Shopper Over P.A. Announcement in N.J. Store
•	Nation & world
•	Man sues Walmart for $1 million over intercom prank
•	Man sues Wal-Mart for $1M, says he was traumatized by racist comment made on NJ store intercom
•	Man sues Wal-Mart for $1M, says he was traumatized by racist comment made at southern NJ store
•	Thailand: Thai supplier to Walmart accused of labour rights violations
•	Walmart supplier in rights row
•	After years of working on its image, Wal-Mart braces for fallout from alleged bribery scandal
•	Recent cases cast doubt on efficacy of whistleblower programs
•	After years of working on its image, Wal-Mart braces for fallout from alleged bribery scandal
•	FILE - In this Tuesday, June 21, 2011 file photo, demonstrators hold signs...
•	Grocery shoppers have power to shun imported food Business |Watch
•	Grocery shoppers have power to shun imported food Business |Watch
•	Grocery shoppers have power to shun imported food Business |Watch
•	Three arrested in Hamburg graffiti spree ; Vandalism defaced two churches and other buildings
•	The Recovery Needs a Recovery; Socialist Policies Ruining the Economy; Stock Market Thrives Despite Economic Woes; Lawmakers Target FaceBook...
•	Readers Write



Walmart suspends seafood supplier over working 'violations'

Matt Williams Paul Harris Adam Gabbatt (contributor)      
guardian.co.uk      
637 words
30 June 2012
Guardian.co.uk
GRULTD
English
(c) 2012 Guardian News & Media Limited. All rights reserved      

Retail giant suspends CJ's Seafood in Louisiana as activists protest against working conditions in other Walmart suppliers

Walmart has suspended a seafood supplier following complaints from workers at the plant that they were forced to work 24 hours at a time and had threats of violence directed at their families.

In a statement, Walmart said a preliminary investigation uncovered "violations" at CJ's Seafood in Louisiana, where eight Mexican employees had complained of being mistreated by their bosses.

It follows an independent report which described conditions at Louisiana food processing plant as "rivalling any sweatshop in China or Bangladesh". It also comes as activists in New York were due to stage a 24-hour fast to protest against unsatisfactory labour conditions at some Walmart suppliers.

On Friday, the National Guestworker Alliance cited 12 other factories in the Walmart supply chain for allegedly violating working conditions.

Over the weekend, members of the pressure group are to join striking employees of CJ's Seafood at a 24-hour fast outside the Manhattan apartment of Walmart board member Michelle Burns.

The workers say they were locked inside the crawfish processing plant during periods of peak demand for sometimes 24 hours at a time. Their families in Mexico were threatened, according to one worker, while they were warned they faced deportation if they did not acquiesce to their employer's demands.

Ana Diaz, who had travelled from her home in north-east Mexico to work at the Louisiana seafood plant, told the Guardian earlier this month: "On two occasions they locked the doors so we couldn't take breaks because they wanted us to produce the crawfish in a shorter time."

One supervisor told her that if workers took breaks, he would lose a lot of money.

"We were afraid because he knows where many of us live. He knows where our family members live; he has our addresses and information. That's when we felt the most locked in and the most abused," Diaz said.

CJ's Seafood did not respond to requests for comment.

Diaz is one of eight employees currently striking over conditions at CJ's.

The group, with the support of National Guestworker Alliance, has lodged a complaint with the wage and hour division of the US department of labour, claiming that the company violated the fair labour standards act by failing to pay overtime and failed to keep accurate records as required by the act and by employers of workers on H2-B visas.

Separately, the workers have filed a charge of discrimination with the equal employment opportunity commission – the first step in the process of bringing a discrimination lawsuit against an employer.

The complaint alleges that the eight were discriminated against on the basis of race, colour, national origin and retaliation, stating that Latino workers "are forced to work longer and less desirable hours" than other people of colour, and alleging that the workers were not paid "according to the terms of their contract".

Walmart said it acted as soon as it heard of the allegations against its suppliers.

Lorenzo Lopez, a spokesman for the retail giant, said officials were on site within a week to conduct a preliminary investigation.

"While we were unable to complete a full investigation at that time, we did uncover violations of some supplier standards."

Lopez added: "We have suspended CJ's Seafood as a supplier, pending the outcome of the investigation."

But Walmart's actions do not go far enough, according to Stephen Boykewich of the National Guestworkers Alliance.

"We do not need another investigation by Walmart. They need to end the contract with CJ's and meet with its workers," he said.

guardian.co.uk © Guardian News and Media 2012

Document GRULTD0020120630e86u000dx

How Wal-Mart Is Making the World More Feminist

197 words
29 June 2012
Atlantic.com
ATLCOM
English
© 2012. The Atlantic Monthly Group. All rights reserved.      

Its critics complain that the company imposes contested notions of progress on the communities where it operates. That can be a bad thing. Is it always?  

Wal-Mart

When fielding questions, C. Douglas McMillon, the CEO of Wal-Mart International, often conveys the point he wants to make via anecdote. After listening to several of them Thursday, my ever-observant colleague James Fallows noticed something. Whether a story took place in Brazil or India or Mexico, the Wal-Mart employee or supplier at its center always seemed to be a woman.

But why?

In recent years, gender has been a fraught subject at Wal-Mart, where some employees have alleged past discrimination that is still the subject of litigation. Whether or not the company is guilty of failing to equitably promote and pay women in the past, the campaign it subsequently launched to address women's issues and shore up its public image is tremendously consequential - given the company's reach, it may end up being among the biggest feminist triumphs that private industry has ever spurred, though that presumes a measure of success that isn't certain.



Document ATLCOM0020120629e86t00002



Walmart supply workers complain of mistreatment by company's contractors

Adam Gabbatt (contributor) Paul Harris      
guardian.co.uk      
1,102 words
22 June 2012
Guardian.co.uk
GRULTD
English
(c) 2012 Guardian News & Media Limited. All rights reserved      

Mexican workers in Louisiana say seafood supplier threatened their families and locked them inside a production plant

Eight seafood plant workers are calling on Walmart to drop a supplier which they say forced them to work up to 24 hours a time and threatened their families with violence.

The workers, who are all from Mexico, were employed to process crawfish by CJ's Seafood in Louisiana, under conditions which an independent report has described as "rivalling any sweatshop in China or Bangladesh".

Separately, a group of warehouse workers have filed a complaint against Walmart and a PR firm associated with the supermarket giant, after a public relations officer was found to have posed as a student journalist to interview activists campaigning against working conditions in warehouses supplying big retailers.

The CJ's Seafood workers say they were locked inside the crawfish processing plant during periods of peak demand. Their families in Mexico were threatened, according to one worker, while they were warned they faced deportation if they did not acquiesce to their employer's demands.

The eight, with the support of the not-for-profit National Guestworker Alliance, lodged a complaint with the wage and hour division of the department of labour this month, claiming that the company violated the fair labor standards act by failing to pay overtime and failed to keep accurate records as required by the act and by employers of workers on H2-B visas.

The workers lodged a separate complaint with the occupational safety and health administration (OSHA), claiming the working conditions at CJ's flouted the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970.

Separately the workers filed a charge of discrimination with the equal employment opportunity commission – the first step in the process of bringing a discrimination lawsuit against an employer.

The complaint alleges that the eight were discriminated against on the basis of race, color, national origin and retaliation, stating that Latino workers "are forced to work longer and less desireable hours" than other people of colour, and alleging that the workers were not paid "according to the terms of their contract".

The department of labour confirmed two investigations, by the wage and hour division and the occupational safety and health administration, were ongoing. The EEOC is prohibited from discussing investigations by federal law.

On Tuesday the eight workers delivered a petition with 130,000 signatures to the New York home of Walmart board member Michelle Burns, while they travelled to Washington DC on Wednesday to meet with members of the Senate appropriation committee.

'They locked the doors so we couldn't take breaks'

The workers are hoping to pressure Walmart into revoking their contract with CJ's Seafood as well as launch an investigation into standards at the plant.

Ana Diaz, one of those on strike, said that a supervisor at the plant warned workers that they would not want him as an enemy.

"He said he had contacts with good people and bad people, and that they could find us no matter where we went," Diaz told the Guardian.

Around 40 Mexicans are employed at CJ's Seafood, according to the alliance, with the eight campaigners currently on strike against conditions.

Diaz, who travelled to Louisiana from her home in Tamapaulipas, in north-east Mexico, said workers at the plant were involved in either peeling or cooking crawfish. Those peeling were mostly women, who worked from 2am until 5pm. Those cooking the fish tended to be men, who Diaz said were forced to work up to 24 hours at a time.

"On two occasions they locked the doors so we couldn't take breaks because they wanted us to produce the crawfish in a shorter time. He said that if we took breaks then he would lose a lot of money."

"We were afraid because he does know where many of us live. He knows where our family members live; he has our addresses and information. That's when we felt the most locked in and the most abused."

Neither Walmart nor CJ's Seafood responded to requests for comment, although Walmart spokeswoman Megan Murphy told the Daily Beast: "Following our investigation, as well as investigations by the department of labour and OSHA, at this time we are unable to substantiate claims of forced labour or human trafficking at CJ Seafood."

Given the investigations by the department of labour began less than three weeks ago, however, it is likely to be some time before they conclude. A spokesman would not comment on the status of the probes, except to say they were still ongoing.

An independent investigation by the Worker Rights Consortium (WRC), originally set up by university administrators, students and labour rights campaigners to prevent sweatshops being used to manufacture university clothing but which now also conducts investigations into broader working conditions, found that "the totality of the abuses taking place at this employer constitute forced labour under US law".

"The conditions at this Walmart supplier are among the worst we have encountered, rivaling any sweatshop in China or Bangladesh," said WRC's executive director Scott Nova.

Jacob Horwitz, lead organiser, said the system of bringing temporary workers into the US "really amounts to creating a whole class of workers without access to the same rights as workers who are [already] in the country".

Some 130,000 people have signed a petition supporting Diaz and her colleagues on Change.org calling on Walmart to sign an agreement to guarantee civil and labour rights for guestworkers in the US, which Diaz and others delivered to Burns's address in lower Manhattan on Tuesday.

It has been a difficult week for the supermarket giant. Last Thursday a public relations officer working for a firm contracted by Walmart was revealed to have posed as a student journalist to interview a labor group highlighting tough working conditions in warehouses that supply by big retailers.

Stephanie Harnett, a publicist for Mercury Communications, interviewed an activist from Warehouse Workers United (WWU) under the assumed name "Zoe Mitchell".

On Wednesday WWU filed complaints against both Walmart and Mercury Communications for what it called "illegally spying on workers".

"Warehouse workers risk retaliation every time we speak to the media and to learn that the company was hiding behind a fake reporter makes me really mad," said Santos Castaneda, the worker interviewed by Harnett.

The complaint was filed with the regional office of the national labor relations board, which prohibits spying on workers, WWU said.

guardian.co.uk © Guardian News and Media 2012

Document GRULTD0020120622e86m000me

Features
WALMART. Business by committee

Claire Bisseker      
1,394 words
22 June 2012
Financial Mail
AIWFIM
Financial Mail
English
Copyright 2012.    Financial Mail      

WALMART

Business by committee

Government is determined to wring every last drop from the Walmart Massmart acquisition

WHAT IT MEANS.

Experts miles apart on merger fund.

A R2bn fund would be seen as a penalty tax

“Value chains are driven by the lead firm, not by klapping them on the head but by demonstrating that it’s in their own best interests”

— MIKE MORRIS

It’s been two years since Walmart, the world’s largest retailer, announced its intention to buy a stake in Massmart. Now, in the final lap, a new hurdle has arisen — one which could send the matter all the way to the supreme court of appeal.

In March this year, the competition appeal court (CAC) ruled that the merger should go ahead with the proviso that the three protagonists — government, labour and the merging firms — find three experts to determine how to structure a fund to assist small Massmart suppliers directly affected by the merger.

This was asking for trouble. The three experts were never all going to be completely neutral or even experts in global supply chain management — the crux of the report they were required to write. Instead of three wise men, the court may at first glance feel it has been presented with the work of three blind mice.

Predictably, they couldn’t agree and last week issued two separate reports. They differ on their terms of reference, the structure of the fund and how much money is needed for it to do a reasonable job.

Two of the experts, Columbia University economics professor and Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz and Genesis Analytics economist James Hodge — appointed by government and labour respectively (both of which opposed the merger) — banded together and wrote a report fundamentally at odds with the report of the third expert, University of Cape Town economics professor Mike Morris, who was appointed by Walmart-Massmart.

Morris was a shoo-in for the role after CAC president Judge Dennis Davis cited A Handbook for Value Chain Research in his judgment. Morris is a co-author of the work. Understanding global value chains, said Davis, was key.

Hodge was the economic expert witness for government during the tribunal hearing and Stiglitz, an internationally renowned development economist, sits on economic development minister Ebrahim Patel’s economic advisory panel.

“It was always going to be two against one,” says Morris. “When Walmart-Massmart approached me I said: ‘I’m interested but get one thing straight — I’m not your representative, you’re not going to be telling me what to do’. And they never did.”

So how come Morris finds that a fund of R100m, the amount initially proffered by Walmart-Massmart in the competition tribunal hearings, is good enough? And is it pure coincidence that the other camp says no less than R500m is needed — the same amount demanded by government during appeal proceedings?

This leaves the court in a quandary. The reason it requested expert advice was that it was unable to judge whether a R100m fund would be sufficient to satisfy the public interest concerns raised by the merger.

So which camp is the most convincing? Morris costed actual examples of local supplier development programmes. The amount of R100m, he finds, is enough to run three highly focused capacity-building cluster programmes over three years. It would constitute the largest retailer-based supply chain development programme in SA.

But it is impossible, he says, to determine how much should be set aside in a fund to ameliorate the harm that could result to any of Massmart’s local suppliers from being displaced by imports once it has access to Walmart’s global supply chain.

Firstly, it’s impossible to know how many firms may be affected. Moreover, the attractiveness of imports over local procurement fluctuates along with the rand exchange rate.

This didn’t stop the Stiglitz-Hodge camp from coming up with a figure of R500m-R2bn.

They argue that R100m is “plainly too little” partly by comparing it to funds administered by the Industrial Development Corp (IDC), which are generally not below R300m and usually run to billions of rand. But the fact that these funds typically have access to taxpayers’ money seems lost on the authors.

They pay no attention whatsoever to competition issues. “A large fund required of one firm is clearly discriminatory, giving competitors a significant advantage and so rendering their proposal for the fund anticompetitive,” says UCT economist David Kaplan. “This is particularly so given that Massmart’s major competitors are large and well-established companies.”

He also believes such a large fund confined to only one foreign-owned firm might not accord with SA’s World Trade Organisation obligations governing equality of treatment. For Kaplan, “the absence of such considerations in a report to a court concerned with issues of competition and SA’s international obligations is, to put it mildly, highly problematic”.

Stiglitz and Hodge are primarily concerned about the harm the merger may do and believe that since the harm will be widespread, the fund should be large. They also say that unless the fund is large there will be no incentive for Massmart to make real efforts at integrating local producers into its supply chain.

Morris’s starting point is the antithesis. He notes that Walmart intends to use SA as a springboard to escalate its reach into African markets. This holds big opportunities for local suppliers.

His contention is that only if the fund’s programmes demonstrate to Walmart that SA suppliers can be upgraded into being globally competitive will it get management’s buy-in and have a chance at transforming Walmart’s procurement behaviour. This is why he argues for small, focused pilots rather than a large, scattershot approach. R100m is enough to produce a good demonstration effect.

“Value chains are driven by the lead firm, not by klapping them on the head but by demonstrating that it’s in their own best interests,” says Morris. “If the fund’s framework and operations are not seen to be in Walmart-Massmart’s business interests, they will regard the fund as a penalty tax. Management will not buy into it. It will simply be a waste of resources and energy.”

Stiglitz and Hodge propose a top-down, prescriptive structure that relegates Walmart-Massmart to being the junior partner in its own fund.

Final oversight and strategic direction would rest with a fund board. They suggest Walmart-Massmart be allowed one representative on a nine-member board against six posts held jointly by government and labour. Decisions would be taken by majority vote.

Fund administration would lie outside Walmart-Massmart with an independent administrator appointed by the board, preferably the IDC (which falls under Patel’s ministerial authority). Crucially, the administrator would decide whether to disburse funds against the projects brought to it by the firm.

“They want the fund administrator to be able to decide on milk versus hammers, but where does it get the knowledge to determine where the firm should be putting its money?” asks Morris. “They’re arrogating power to a board stacked with government, union and outside business people.”

Supply chain expert Justin Barnes of BM Analysts says whether a supplier development programme will work at Massmart-Walmart will depend not on how much money is spent but how strategically aligned it is with the firm’s core business.

“Given that strategy deployment is a private, confidential process that sits at the heart of how firms (and their supply chains) compete with one another, the idea of guiding supplier development on behalf of Walmart through a public body of some kind is just plain daft,” he says. “Unless the supplier development programme meets the commercial interests of Massmart-Walmart it will fail.”

If faced with the Stiglitz-Hodge option, the most likely consequence is that Walmart-Massmart will take the matter to the supreme court of appeal. Hopefully the CAC will prevent this with a sensible ruling. Its judges have enough experience to know a shakedown when they see one.

The parties have a month to respond to the two reports before they are submitted to the CAC for evaluation. A date for the court’s decision has not yet been set.

Mike Morris Fund must be in Walmart-Massmart’s business interests

Document AIWFIM0020120622e86m0000s



Tipping the Scales
Greg Kehoe: From The Hague to Arkansas and Mexico

Jane Meinhardt      
773 words
15 June 2012
Tampa Bay Business Journal
TBBUSJ
English
© 2012 American City Business Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.      

Greg Kehoe, Greenberg Traurig shareholder in Tampa, was tapped by Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to be on its outside legal team as the retailer investigates allegations that executives violated anti-bribery laws at the company’s Mexican subsidiary.

In adding Kehoe, the giant retailer gained a renowned litigator.

Kehoe was a former advisor to the Iraqi Special Tribunal that prosecuted Saddam Hussein. He is a prominent figure at the International Criminal Court at The Hague, Netherlands, and experience with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act is among his legal fortes.

Wal-Mart (NYSE: WMT) is conducting an investigation of allegations its Mexican subsidiary paid millions in bribes to expand in that country and that some company executives covered up violations of the FCPA. The law basically criminalizes payments to foreign officials.

The Wal-Mart situation could be considered a wake-up call for U.S. companies that do business in foreign countries.

Kehoe is unable to comment on his work for Wal-Mart but said that, in general, enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws has increased dramatically in recent years.

"What you’re going to see is a growing effort worldwide to implement anti-bribery measures," he said.

The U.S. Department of Justice has conducted about 150 investigations in recent years as it steps up enforcement of the FCPA, a law on the books since 1977, and fines companies for violations.

Fines can be hefty. In the largest FCPA case so far, Siemens paid $1.6 billion in penalties in 2008 in a settlement over FCPA violations.

Company employees also can face criminal prosecution. In December 2011, six former Siemens executives and several intermediaries were indicted for conspiring to violate the FCPA and other charges.

Most FCPA cases have been settled out of court, Kehoe said, and companies tend to self-report FCPA violations.

"Normally, a company will voluntarily report and put it behind them sooner rather than later," Kehoe said. "Most companies, frankly, are trying to do the right thing."

Englander Fischer adds dispute practice

The commercial law firm Englander Fischer in St. Petersburg added another practice for clients with business disputes and the lawyers representing them.

Name partner Leonard Englander along with Terry L. Hirsch and Jason M. Ellison lead the new alternative dispute resolution practice. All three are certified circuit civil mediators.

Partner Jay B. Verona, who often is appointed by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court as a mediator, also is a practice group member.

Veteran lawyer Englander, who has participated in nearly 400 mediations, sees it as an opportunity for him to focus on being a settlement counselor.

"This is a notion that’s been taken to the next level in the Northeast," he said.

A settlement lawyer comes into play when opposing lawyers are so adversarial that they cannot communicate with each other.

"When lawyers can’t get the job done because there is such an adversarial situation, a settlement counselor represents one side," Englander said. "This introduces a new personality and breaks the logjam."

Florida leads in Wal-Mart claims

Florida has the distinction of having the most Equal Employment Opportunity Commissiondiscrimination charges filed by current and former employees of Wal-Mart.

The women turned to the EEOC to file individual claims after the U.S. Supreme Court reversed a lower court ruling certifying the national class-action discrimination lawsuit against the giant retailer.

Nearly 300 EEOC claims have been filed in Florida. Altogether, about 2,000 current and former Wal-Mart or Sam’s Club employees around the country have filed claims alleging pay and promotion discrimination.

Brian Marshall pleads money woes

Tampa entrepreneur and contractor Brian Marshall, who has a history of spending thousands of dollars on gifts, gambling and strip club entertainment, told a Dallas federal court he cannot afford a private attorney to represent him.

Marshall, founder of Fireline Restoration, pleaded not guilty to two counts of securities fraud on May 29 after he was indicted by a Texas grand jury.

Federal court records show he was assigned a federal public defender and was ordered to pay $200 toward his defense by July1.

It was a very different situation for Marshall, who reportedly sold Fireline for about $50 million and once shelled out $1,080 in cash from his pocket during a hearing on his failure to pay about $65,000 in back child support.

Did you find this article useful? Why not subscribe to Tampa Bay Business Journal for more articles and leads? Visit bizjournals.com/subscribe or call 1-866-853-3661.

Document TBBUSJ0020120615e86f00006



Mark Bittman
Opinion
The 20 Million

By MARK BITTMAN      
979 words
12 June 2012
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2012 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved      

Help wanted: Salary: $19,000 (some may be withheld or stolen). No health insurance, paid sick days or paid vacation.  Opportunity for advancement: nearly nil.

This job, or something much like it, is held by nearly 20 million people, 10 million of whom work in restaurants. They are the workers employed in producing, processing and delivering our food, who have been portrayed in vivid and often dispiriting detail in a new report called The Hands That Feed Us. Written by the Food Chain Workers Alliance, the report surveyed nearly 700 workers employed in five major sectors: production, processing, distribution, retail and service.

The upshot: Our food comes at great expense to the workers who provide it. "The biggest workforce in America can't put food on the table except when they go to work," says Saru Jayaraman, Co-Founder of the Restaurant Opportunities Centers United (ROC-U).

Many people in the nascent food movement and in the broader "foodie" set know our farmers' (and their kids') names and what their animals eat. We practically worship chefs, and the damage done to land, air and water by high-tech ag is - correctly - a constant concern.

Yet though you can't be a card-carrying foodie if you don't know the provenance of your heirloom tomato, you apparently can be one if you don't know how the members of your wait staff are treated. We don't seem to mind or even notice that our servers might be making $2.13 an hour. That tip you debate increasing to 20 percent might be the difference in making the rent.

It's true that a bit of attention has been paid to farmworkers - with some good results - and occasionally you read about the horrors of life in a slaughterhouse. But despite our obsession with food, the worker is an afterthought.

The Hands That Feed Us, and the work being done on the ground by groups like ROC-U - which contributed to the report and helped create the Food Chain Workers Alliance in 2008 - may signal the beginning of a change.

Take that $2.13 figure, the federal minimum wage for tipped workers. Legally, tips should cover the difference between that and the federal minimum wage, now a whopping $7.25. If they don't, employers are obligated to make up the difference. But that doesn't always happen, leaving millions of servers - 70 percent of whom are women - taking home far less than the minimum wage.

Which brings us to the happily almost-forgotten Herman Cain. What's called the "tipped minimum wage" - that $2.13 - once increased in proportion to the regular minimum wage. But in 1996, the year Cain took over as head of the National Restaurant Association (NRA), he struck a deal with President Bill Clinton and his fellow Democrats. In exchange for an increase in the regular minimum wage, the tipped minimum wage was de-coupled. The result: despite regular increases in the regular minimum wage, the tipped minimum wage hasn't changed since 1991.

Other disheartening facts: Around one in eight jobs in the food industry provides a wage greater than 150 percent of the regional poverty level. More than three-quarters of the workers surveyed don't receive health insurance from their employers. (Fifty-eight percent don't have it at all; national health care, anyone?) More than half have worked while sick or suffered injuries or health problems on the job, and more than a third reported some form of wage theft in the previous week. Not year: week.

There are societal considerations as well as moral ones: Food workers use public assistance programs (including, ironically, SNAP or food stamps), at higher rates than the rest of the United States work force. And not surprisingly, more than a third of workers use the emergency room for primary care, and 80 percent of them were unable to pay for it. These are tabs we all pick up.

Senator Tom Harkin's (D-IA) proposed Rebuild America Act would raise the tipped minimum wage to $6.85 over five years (and the federal minimum wage to $9.80 by 2014), and allow more American workers to earn paid sick days.  But Jayaraman (whose book, Behind the Kitchen Door , will be published next year), justifiably believes that these battles won't be won at a federal level without a massive shift in consumer thinking.

To that end, ROC-U produced a National Diner's Guide that rates restaurants based on how they treat their employees. (We have pocket guides for fish; finally, there's one for humans.)

Not surprisingly, most of the most notable abuses occur at the bigger companies. Remember Michelle Obama's spotlight on Walmart (the world's biggest food retailer) and the gigantic Darden Restaurant Company (which owns about 1,900 restaurants, including Olive Garden and Red Lobster), when she famously brokered dealswith each that will ostensibly make their products "healthier"?

Well, both companies are known for labor abuses: Walmart for erratic and exhausting scheduling and hour-cutting, and Darden - highlighted in the ROC-U report - for low pay, no paid sick days, lack of breaks and even racial discrimination. Those things tend not to come up when we're focusing on making our food system healthier.

On the other hand, Five Guys (with over 1,000 locations in the United States and Canada) evidently provides paid sick days and the opportunity for advancement.

Where would you rather eat?

That's a real question. If you care about sustainability - the capacity to endure - it's time to expand our definition to include workers. You can't call food sustainable when it's produced by people whose capacity to endure is challenged by poverty-level wages.

* Make Food Choices Simple: Cook

Document NYTB000020120613e86c0002u



Nearly 2,000 Wal-Mart Women File EEOC    Discrimination  Charges Against Retailer

462 words
12 June 2012
Health & Beauty Close-Up
HEALBE
English
(c) 2012. Close-Up Media, Inc. All rights reserved.      

Nearly 2,000 current and former employees of Wal-Mart have filed charges of pay and promotion discrimination against the world's largest retailer with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC).

According to a release, the charges were filed in the wake of the June 2011 U.S. Supreme Court decision reversing a lower court ruling certifying the national class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

According to co-lead counsel for the women, Brad Seligman of the Impact Fund, and Joseph Sellers of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC, the 1,975 EEOC charges were filed in all but two states, and encompass every Wal-Mart retail region in the United States.

"The fact that EEOC charges were filed in every single Wal-Mart region in the nation demonstrates the widespread and pervasive nature of Wal-Mart's pay and promotion discrimination against its women employees," said Seligman.

By filing charges with the EEOC, which enforces federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination, women with complaints against Wal-Mart and its subsidiary Sam's Club dating back to December 26, 1998, protect their right to sue over pay and promotion discrimination even though the Supreme Court reversed the class certification.

Women in five states - Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Mississippi and North Carolina - had until Jan. 27, to file their claims with the EEOC, and women in the remaining states had until May 25. Women with pay and promotion discrimination charges against Wal-Mart can continue to file charges with the EEOC for claims that occurred within 300 days of the filing (180 days in the five states listed above).

Florida leads the list of current EEOC filings with 284 claims, followed by Alabama with 142 and Georgia with 119. Except for Montana and Vermont, all other states had at least one EEOC charge filed against Wal-Mart.

"That nearly 2,000 women across the country have filed charges over the past year making similar claims of sex discrimination against Wal-Mart is a striking testament that the problems that gave rise to the original case are ongoing and that the evidence of discrimination remains widespread," said Joseph Sellers of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC.

Regional class action lawsuits on behalf of women plaintiffs who worked in California and Texas region Wal-Mart stores were filed in federal courts in those states in October 2011, with an expanded class action lawsuit - Odle v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc - filed in Texas federal court in January 2012. Numerous other class action lawsuits are expected to be filed in other states throughout the year.

More Information:

www.walmartclass.com

((Comments on this story may be sent to health@closeupmedia.com))

Document HEALBE0020120612e86c00008

The Practice
A year after 'Wal-Mart,' class actions not dead yet; District court judges are carefully parsing the Supreme Court's opinion in the case and still certifying class actions.

BY LINDA S. MULLENIX      
1,384 words
11 June 2012
The National Law Journal
NLJ
10
Volume 34; Issue 41
English
Copyright 2012 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

As the first anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court's June 20, 2011, landmark class action decision in Wal-Mart Stores Inc. v. Dukes, 131 S. Ct. 2541, approaches, a smattering of federal district court decisions suggest that judges are carefully parsing that opinion and still certifying class actions. Although it is far too early to project any definitive assessments, some melodramatic pronouncements of the death of class litigation in Dukes' wake seem premature.

The chief concern in Dukes' aftermath focused on the Court's reassessment of the appropriate standard for satisfaction of the Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(a)(2) threshold commonality requirement. In determining whether a class of female Wal-Mart employees had sufficiently alleged classwide discrimination under Title VII, the Court summarized the commonality requirement as necessitating that the plaintiffs demonstrate that the class members had suffered the same injury.

The Court indicated that this did not mean that all the class members had suffered a violation of the same provision of law. Rather, "[t]heir claims must depend upon a common contention—for example, the assertion of discriminatory bias on the part of the same supervisor. The common contention, moreover, must be of such a nature that it is capable of classwide resolution—which means that determination of its truth or falsity will resolve an issue that is central to the validity of each one of the claims in one stroke." 131 S. Ct. at 2551.

Critics swiftly opined that the Court had ratcheted up and imposed a more demanding commonality requirement, essentially reading Rule 23(b)(3)'s predominance requirement back into Rule 23(a). A chorus of Cassandras predicted that this higher threshold commonality requirement effectively would kill off attempts to certify not only Rule 23(b)(3) class actions, but Rule 23(b)(1) and (b) (2) classes as well, which do not require a finding of predominance of common questions of law or fact.

POST-'DUKES' CLASS CERTIFICATIONS

Assessing Dukes' impact after one year requires a high degree of caution, because there are few reported certification decisions citing the Court's opinion. In addition, it is impossible to ascertain the true extent of Dukes' impact because any number of certification decisions remain unpublished. Therefore, a larger body of reported case law is required realistically to assess Dukes' influence on class certification.

Nonetheless, two decisions from the Southern District of New York illustrate how that court has approached the Dukes decision. The most recent, Stinson v. City of New York, 2012 WL 1450553 (S.D.N.Y. April 23, 2012), should inspire every New Yorker who has ever received a parking ticket. Aggrieved New Yorkers filed this class action against the city of New York, the New York City Police Department and Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly. The complaint alleged that the defendants implemented and sanctioned a policy, practice and custom of issuing unconstitutional summons in violation of 42 U.S.C. 1983, and the First, Fourth, Fifth, Eighth and 14th amendments. The plaintiffs alleged that police issued summons without probable cause in order to meet minimum quota requirements, and punished officers who issued fewer summons and rewarded those who met their quotas.

The plaintiffs sought certification of a Rule 23(b)(2) injunctive class and a Rule 23(b)(3) compensatory and punitive damage class. The district court granted certification, noting that "[i]n addressing Rule 23(a)'s commonality requirement particular attention must be paid to the Supreme Court's recent decision in Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes." After reviewing that decision's commonality standard, the court held that the proposed class satisfied Rule 23(a)(2) commonality.

In reaching this conclusion, the district court indicated that, unlike in Dukes, in which the plaintiffs alleged a corporate policy of discretion to local managers and corporate officers hostile to the advancement of women, the plaintiffs in Stinson had alleged a specific policy and practice promulgated by the defendants in which New York police officers issued summons without probable cause in order to meet a summons quota. The district court concluded that, as such, "the Supreme Court's holding in Dukes supports a finding that Rule 23(a)'s commonality element has been established in this case."

In another Southern District of New York case relying on Dukes, female employees of Goldman Sachs won a partial class certification victory. See Chen-Oster v. Goldman, Sachs & Co., 2012 WL 205875 (S.D.N.Y. Jan. 19, 2012). This class of women alleged gender discrimination, in violation of Title VII, 42 U.S.C. 2000e, and New York human rights law. They sought certification of Rule 23(b)(2) and (b)(3) classes. In an interesting preemptive procedural maneuver, the defendants moved to strike the class allegations in light of the Wal-Mart decision.

The court denied the defendants' motion to strike, essentially ruling that a motion to strike class allegations was an inappropriate procedural means to challenge class certification. The court suggested that this end-run would require the court to make assessments similar to a class certification decision, and thus a motion to strike was both duplicative and premature.

Having concluded that a motion to strike class allegations was impermissible, the court nonetheless previewed several opinions about whether the Goldman Sachs women might be able to satisfy class certification requirements. With regard to commonality, the court suggested that the Goldman Sachs plaintiffs had identified a number of specific employment practices by the defendants, including its review process, forced quartile rankings, and "tap on the shoulder" system for promotion. The court noted that it was unclear from the pleadings alone the extent to which any of these factors contributed to a common mode of exercising discretion by Goldman Sachs managers. However, the court indicated that, with further discovery, the plaintiffs might be able to show that the combination of some or all of these practices meet the Rule 23(a)(2) commonality requirement, "even in light of the gloss provided by Dukes."

And in California, where a federal court gave us the original Wal-Mart litigation, two district court decisions have not found the Dukes commonality requirement to be an impenetrable obstacle to class certification. See Oster v. Lightbourne, 2012 WL 685808 (N.D. Calif. March 2, 2012) and In re Google AdWords Litig., 2012 WL 28068 (N.D. Calif. 2012). In Oster, the plaintiffs moved for class certification under rules 23(a) and (b)(2), challenging two provisions of California law mandating reductions to the state's In-Home Support Services for elderly and disabled persons. The defendants opposed class certification to a subclass of future claimants, contending this class violated the Dukes commonality requirement.

The district court concluded otherwise, holding that there was no question that California law instituted a 20 percent reduction in hours and the fact that recipients might request a restoration of hours did not destroy the commonality of the injury. In addition, the court concluded that the restoration application process did not afford discretion to social workers to restore hours, and therefore the plaintiffs had demonstrated commonality consistent with Dukes.

Finally, in the Google AdWords litigation, the plaintiffs sought certification of a Rule 23(b)(3) class alleging that the defendant engaged in deceptive advertising and unfair and unlawful business practices involving Google AdWords. The court held that Dukes commonality was satisfied because the plaintiffs' question centered on whether Google's alleged omissions were misleading to a reasonable AdWords customer, while the defendant's question centered on whether customers were entitled to restitution. "In the court's opinion, both parties' proposed questions are central to and will drive the litigation....Because plaintiffs present a valid common question, commonality is satisfied." Nonetheless, the court declined to certify the class, finding that individualized issues relating to restitution defeated the Rule 23(b)(3) predominance requirement for certification.

LINDA S. MULLENIX holds the Morris and Rita Atlas Chair in Advocacy at the University of Texas School of Law. She is the author of Leading Cases in Civil Procedure (2d ed. 2012) and Mass Tort Litigation (2d ed. 2008).      

Document NLJ0000020120618e86b0000k

current
Wal-Mart faces second round of gender bias suit

Petra Pasternak ppasternak@alm.com      
624 words
11 June 2012
The Recorder
RECRDR
1
Volume 136; Issue 24
English
Copyright 2012 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.        

U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer signaled Friday that plaintiffs attorneys representing women in a revamped gender bias suit against Wal-Mart Stores Inc. may fall short again of showing the employees have enough in common to sue the company as a class.

Noting that the U.S. Supreme Court laid down the law in the 11-year old case last June in Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Breyer said the key hurdle for plaintiffs is to allege class standing that would survive when tested against the language of the high court's decision. "I'm seriously concerned the plaintiff has not done so," Breyer said during the hourlong hearing.

In the 5-4 ruling, the Supreme Court held that plaintiffs failed to prove a common companywide policy of discrimination as required under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23(a)(2).

Brad Seligman of the Impact Fund filed an amended complaint last fall for a much smaller proposed class — of about 45,000 women in and around California.

At the hearing, Breyer agreed the Supreme Court ruling doesn't bar seeking certification for a narrower class and suggested the key challenge will be to show that discrimination played a role in the pay and promotion decisions affecting each of the members.

Wal-Mart, represented by Theodore Boutrous Jr. of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, urged the court to dismiss the case because it's no different from its prior iteration. "I experienced a severe case of déjà vu," Boutrous said of the amended complaint. "These are exactly the same arguments these plaintiffs have been making for 11 years."

Wal-Mart argued in its motion to dismiss that the Supreme Court rejected the proposed class not because of its size, "but rather due to a lack of legal and evidentiary glue' that could bind together the divergent claims of individuals who worked in different stores, in different positions, at different time, under different supervisors."

Seligman countered that the case is now focused on California district and regional managers — as opposed to national managers — providing the "glue." He argued that district and regional managers approved every pay raise and promotion challenged in the new case, and that he has evidence showing they harbor discriminatory attitudes and biased views against women. "We're not just chopping out a smaller piece," he said. "We're challenging the decision makers themselves. That's a fundamental difference."

Breyer was skeptical.

"If it can't be done for 1.5 million people, can you say it can be done for 50,000 people?" Breyer asked. "The determining factor is commonality," Seligman said, not size. "This class is defined by the decision makers whose mode of decision making we're challenging here."

Breyer didn't say when he'd rule.

Challenging Wal-Mart's employment practices via class action isn't the Impact Fund's only mode of attack. Seligman said in a telephone interview this past week he's also ready to litigate individual claims. In a Wednesday press release the Impact Fund said about 2,000 current and former Wal-Mart employees have filed pay and promotion discrimination charges against the company with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.

The Berkeley-based Impact Fund and Joseph Sellers of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll are co-lead counsel for women in both the individual cases and the proposed class action.

"If the judge shoots down the class action, we'd have to decide whether to appeal," Seligman said in a telephone call on Thursday. "That is probably something we'd do. The individual charges have their own validity and we'd go forward with them."

Document RECRDR0020120612e86b00002



Newsmakers
Calgary Business
Doubts cast over Wal-Mart suit

Calgary Herald      
141 words
9 June 2012
Calgary Herald
CALH
Final
D2
English
Copyright © 2012 Calgary Herald      

A U.S. judge on Friday said he was "seriously concerned" about whether women suing Wal-Mart Stores Inc. had enough evidence to move forward with their refiled gender discrimination lawsuit.

Plaintiffs alleging the world's largest retailer denied them pay raises and promotions because of their gender are trying to regroup after the U.S. Supreme Court last year dismantled a class of up to 1.5 million current and former Wal-Mart workers. The Wal-Mart workers filed a reformulated lawsuit in a San Francisco federal court in October, saying they were confining their allegations to California.

Brad Seligman, an attorney for the women, argued they had uncovered enough new facts, including specific comments by Wal-Mart managers. "This is direct evidence of discrimination," Seligman said.

/ Brad Seligman;      

Document CALH000020120609e8690003d



Business News
Wal-Mart may block suit by employees.

182 words
9 June 2012
The Irish Times
IRTI
18
English
(c) 2012, The Irish Times.      

Wal-Mart Stores Inc may be able to block a discrimination suit brought by 45,000 female employees in California because of an earlier US Supreme Court ruling in the retailer’s favour in a broader case, a judge said.

US district judge Charles Breyer in San Francisco said at a hearing yesterday that he was “seriously concerned” that lawyers for the women haven’t shown enough evidence to allow the group, or class action, complaint filed in October to proceed.

The judge said he will review the matter and issue a ruling later. A group of more than a million women across the US were barred from proceeding with their discrimination claims in a single lawsuit when the supreme court ruled last June that the plaintiffs failed to prove the world’s largest retailer had a nationwide policy that led to gender discrimination.

Lawyers for the women filed new lawsuits, narrowing plaintiff groups to workers in California and Texas, after the Supreme Court threw out the lawsuit involving a nationwide group. – (Bloomberg)

Document IRTI000020120609e8690002h



UPDATE 1-Judge casts doubt on Wal-Mart gender lawsuit

By Dan Levine      
337 words
8 June 2012
01:15 PM
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2012 Reuters Limited      

(Adds comments from judge, attorneys, background)

SAN FRANCISCO, June 8 (Reuters) - A U.S. judge on Friday said he was "seriously concerned" about whether women suing Wal-Mart Stores Inc had enough evidence to move forward with their refiled gender discrimination lawsuit.

Plaintiffs alleging the world's largest retailer denied them pay raises and promotions because of their gender are trying to regroup after the U.S. Supreme Court last year dismantled a class of up to 1.5 million current and former Wal-Mart workers.

The Wal-Mart workers filed a reformulated lawsuit in a San Francisco federal court in October, saying they were confining their allegations to California.

Speaking at a hearing on Friday, U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer said the plaintiffs could only move forward with a refiled lawsuit if they could show new evidence to overcome the Supreme Court's criticisms. And Breyer said he had "difficulty" seeing where the plaintiffs had come up with that evidence.

Brad Seligman, an attorney for the women, argued that they had uncovered enough new facts, including specific comments by Wal-Mart managers.

"This is direct evidence of discrimination," Seligman said.

The refiled lawsuit, which could include roughly 45,000 women, is part of a strategy to bring more narrowly tailored class actions.

Wal-Mart attorney Theodore Boutrous argued that the plaintiffs hadn't come up with anything new.

"These are the exact arguments the plaintiff has been making for 11 years," Boutrous said.

The case in U.S. District Court, Northern District of California is Betty Dukes, Patricia Surgeson, Edith Arana, Deborah Gunter and Christine Kwapnoski, on behalf of themselves and all others similarly situated v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc, 01-2252.

(Reporting By Dan Levine; Editing by Gerald E. McCormick, Dave zimmerman)

WALMART/LAWSUIT (UPDATE 1) | ABN | E | RBN | FSC | G | ABX | BNX | FUN | RNA | U | AFA | CSA | LBY | RWSA | RWS | REULB | GNS | RNP | DNP | PGE | PCO | SXNA      

Document LBA0000020120608e8680017h



Nearly 2,000 Wal-Mart Women File EEOC    Discrimination  Charges Against Retailer

501 words
6 June 2012
03:16 PM
Business Wire
BWR
English
(c) 2012    Business Wire. All Rights Reserved.      

Claims in 48 states encompass every Wal-Mart U.S. region


WASHINGTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--June 06, 2012-- 

Nearly 2,000 current and former employees of Wal-Mart have filed charges of pay and promotion discrimination against the world's largest retailer with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). The charges were filed in the wake of the June 2011 U.S. Supreme Court decision reversing a lower court ruling certifying the national class action lawsuit Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

According to co-lead counsel for the women, Brad Seligman of the Impact Fund, and Joseph Sellers of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC, the 1,975 EEOC charges were filed in all but two states, and encompass every Wal-Mart retail region in the United States.

"The fact that EEOC charges were filed in every single Wal-Mart region in the nation demonstrates the widespread and pervasive nature of Wal-Mart's pay and promotion discrimination against its women employees, " said Seligman.

By filing charges with the EEOC, which enforces federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination, women with complaints against Wal-Mart and its subsidiary Sam's Club dating back to December 26, 1998, protect their right to sue over pay and promotion discrimination even though the Supreme Court reversed the class certification.

Women in five states -- Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Mississippi and North Carolina -- had until Jan. 27, 2012, to file their claims with the EEOC, and women in the remaining states had until May 25, 2012. Women with pay and promotion discrimination charges against Wal-Mart can continue to file charges with the EEOC for claims that occurred within 300 days of the filing (180 days in the five states listed above).

Florida leads the list of current EEOC filings with 284 claims, followed by Alabama with 142 and Georgia with 119. Except for Montana and Vermont, all other states had at least one EEOC charge filed against Wal-Mart.

"That nearly 2,000 women across the country have filed charges over the past year making similar claims of sex discrimination against Wal-Mart is a striking testament that the problems that gave rise to the original case are ongoing and that the evidence of discrimination remains widespread," said Joseph Sellers of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC.

Regional class action lawsuits on behalf of women plaintiffs who worked in California and Texas region Wal-Mart stores were filed in federal courts in those states in October 2011, with an expanded class action lawsuit -- Odle v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc -- filed in Texas federal court in January 2012. Numerous other class action lawsuits are expected to be filed in other states throughout the year.

For more information about the case or EEOCdiscrimination filings against Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., visit www.walmartclass.com.

Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC    |                              Pam Avery,    |                              402-305-0799    |                              pam@turnerstrategies.com    |                    SOURCE: Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC      

Document BWR0000020120606e866000it

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

1,782 words
3 June 2012
The Spokesman-Review
SPRV
IDAHO
B9
English
© 2012 The Spokesman-Review. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.      

TAKE CARE OF YOUR DOGS

Hi, we are 9 years of age and we save dogs. We think that dogs should be treated with respect. So hug your dog, or give it a treat! Tell your dog that you love it with your whole heart. We want you to care for your dog, not just dump it in your backyard or on the street.

Even if your dog is a pest, that doesn't give you the right to abandon it. Instead give it to a home that will love it and care for it.

HALLE HOBER AND CHLOE LEMON

SPOKANE

WAL-MART INFLUENCE ABOUNDS

I recently learned that Wal-Mart de Mexico allegedly paid bribes and gave "donations" to local government officials throughout Mexico in order to obtain permits easily and quickly in their rush to build stores and gain market dominance in Mexico. Also, top-level Wal- Mart executives tried to hush up these actions by shutting down their own internal investigation. Bribery is a violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and is a criminal offense in Mexico.

A number of issues arise. First, such behavior shows how unregulated free enterprise and competition can lead to widespread corruption. Wal-Mart, with its well-known zealous, anti-union bias, has provided a devastating model contributing to the relative, downward economic slide of middle-class wages. Today, the rate of private-sector unionization is now down to less than 7 percent. Thus, working people have had their bargaining power weakened and their wages diminished, even as productivity, profits and dividends are generally up for U.S. corporations.

With the Citizens United decision, U.S. corporations can overpoweringly influence our political sphere.

Our nation has been Wal-Martized, corporatized and Fox-inated. The "success" of corporations has cost the middle class its economic position and is costing the nation its democracy.

PHILIP A. DEUTCHMAN

SANDPOINT

DON'T PLAY FAVORITES

Once again, it appears the Spokane County Democratic Party is up to old tricks with its anointed, appointed favorite son candidate.

In 2010, it was Andy Billig, and this year it is Marcus Riccelli. While I don't discredit Mr. Riccelli's merits, I believe a true democratic process allows all Democrats equal access.

I am hopeful that "good Democrats" will not allow candidates Jon Snyder and Bob Apple to be treated as second-class citizens, as occurred in the 2010 election.

LOUISE CHADEZ

SPOKANE

HOLDER IS UNACCOUNTABLE

The U.S. Department of Justice under Eric Holder put three Navy SEALs on trial for punching a terrorist in the stomach during his capture (Ahmed Abed allegedly was behind the killing, burning and hanging of four Americans from a bridge in Iraq). Then came the inability to discern voter intimidation via Black Panthers (it's intimidation whether by the KKK or the Panthers).

There was a desire to try 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed in New York City. The World Trade Center memorial, museum and complete rebuilding will be completed before these "man-caused disasters" see justice.

The DOJ filed suit against an Illinois school on behalf of teacher Safoorah Khan for religious discrimination when, after nine months on the job, she desired a three-week leave to visit Mecca, and the school board nixed it.

And, of course, it sued the state of Arizona on immigration law, all the while ignoring the many sanctuary cities.

Recently, Joe Donnelly, a Democrat from Indiana, supported a contempt of Congress sanction against Holder for the "Fast and Furious" gun-tracking scandal.

Holder is a polemic hack, but President Barack Obama says he's doing a great job. Imagine what they could accomplish in another four years.

CHRISTY MILLER

SAGLE, IDAHO

HEALTH CARE TOLL IS SICKENING

Every year, 45,000 Americans die of something that doesn't exist elsewhere in the developed world. They die from complications due to lack of medical care. If a flu virus found only in America killed 45,000 annually, we would march on Washington with torches. Do we count the uninsured as collateral damage in our scramble for financial success?

This is social engineering at its worst. The "haves" and "have mores" determine who gets medical coverage. Nowhere else in developed countries do people die or go bankrupt for lack of medical coverage.

Judeo-Christian teachings state that God judges individuals and nations by how they treat those who live at the margins. Every major religion in the world puts compassion at the top of its list of values. Somehow the "gospel of prosperity" or "me first" sells better.

If you consider America a Christian nation, where does Jesus say that financial success shows God's approval and those who don't make it deserve what they get?

Capitalism creates abundant opportunities. But raw capitalism has a cruel underbelly - survival of the fittest, rewarding the dominant. It works best when balanced with compassionate institutions, laws and people.

It's moral gut-check time in America.

LARRY WINTERS

CHENEY

IMPRESSED WITH SENIORS

Recently I volunteered to be a member of a panel whose job it was to listen and evaluate senior presentations at Mead High School as well as Mead Educational Alternative Division. It is a graduation requirement that every senior successfully complete a portfolio that includes a transition plan from school to work or further education.

After listening to many seniors present their work, I feel compelled to assert my opinion of the high quality of education taking place in public schools today. Contrary to the "buzz" often touted that public schools are failing, I found clear evidence that public schools are doing an excellent job producing engaged and productive graduates who are the workforce and leaders of tomorrow.

Congratulations to the graduating seniors and to the teachers, staff and engaged adults who worked diligently to support their learning. High-quality public education is a cornerstone of democracy and is worthy of our support.

MARY KAY GERARDS

SPOKANE

EXPLAIN FIRING AT MAC

Your call (May 26 editorial) for an explanation of Forrest Rodgers' firing at the MAC states the problem perfectly.

Spokane's a tiny town. Everybody knows everybody. Consequently, it's your word, candor and transparency that count - not rapid backpedaling or lawyering up when board and committee actions are questioned. Simply explain what happened, when and why.

This can be done without violating personnel confidentiality. If things were done inappropriately, correct them and move on. You can regain the support of the Spokane community through your best service by being true fiduciaries - faithful servants - who serve the mission of the MAC well, solely and selflessly.

The MAC is a true gem. Allow members, donors and every visitor to continue to enjoy it and show it off to their friends. Let them point with pride to the great exhibits, collections and events, and to the diligent and intelligent management of the MAC that makes all this possible.

What's so ironic is that Rodgers was hired to boost funding in light of reduced state support. How can anyone pull that off in light of board and committee actions that rob the MAC's greater art- loving constituency of the enthusiasm to support that effort?

BROOKS C. SACKETT

SPOKANE

NOISE ORDINANCE IS SOUND

I am glad the city of Spokane enacted a noise ordinance to control excessive downtown street music volume.

I work in an office building about a half block east of River Park Square, where musicians frequently play amplified music. While my office is hundreds of feet away and five stories up, the music has often been so loud that I cannot concentrate and perform my job.

I am not a music hater, nor do I dislike street musicians - if their volume is reasonable and they do not intimidate passers-by or impede foot traffic. I reject the notion that cities are supposed to be noisy and people need to meekly accept whatever musical decibel level is dished out.

Kudos to the mayor and city for attempting to achieve a more equitable balance between musicians' freedom of expression and the greater public good.

RODNEY AHO

SPOKANE

CALL THE POTHOLE PATROL

It was obvious to me that the "Pothole Patrol" must not have driven up or down Rockwood Boulevard to arrive at their destination of 25th Avenue for their repairs. If they had they couldn't have helped noticing the miserable conditions of Rockwood from 10th Avenue to Southeast Boulevard. It needs that 36-hour immediate attention, desperately, of the "Pothole Patrol."

P.S. Are they ever going to pave the streets of Mount Vernon between 37th and 39th? Could they at least fill in the giant holes in those streets? The dirt from those streets that seeps into our homes is a constant aggravation I have lived with for almost 30 years!

SHERRI HYAMS

SPOKANE

PAY COMPARISONS UNFAIR

The recent criticisms about the "very high salary of $240,000 per year" for the new superintendent of Spokane's school district are unfair because the arguments are compared with other government employees (governor, state attorney general).

The fact of the matter is that our superintendents throughout the greater Spokane school districts are serving as chief executive officers for the most important enterprise in our country: education. If their salaries were compared to college sports coaches in our state (e.g., over $2 million for WSU football coach) and CEOs with comparable responsibilities in the corporate world, then their salaries would actually be "very low."

Furthermore, the school boards that are being criticized approving these salaries are comprised of business people and other professionals who understand the value of recruiting and retaining talented CEOs to lead our school districts with competitive salary packages.

These board members are also taxpayers who make salary decisions for superintendents. Our state and local budgets should always reflect the cost of education at the top of the priority list to assure a strong future for education in Washington and the positive outcome it will have for our economy.

WES TETERUD

SPOKANE VALLEY

BUYING LIQUOR IN CALIFORNIA

Under state control, Washington liquor prices were almost double what they are in Northern California. Indications so far are that prices will go even higher with private sales. There's really no excuse for this since the state will no longer be leasing the buildings and paying the employees to sell the stuff. This is nothing more than state government continuing its attitude of treating adult consumers like ignorant children.

For me an annual trip to Northern California is the way to go. The savings in the price difference will way more than pay for any gas I might burn.

TOM STARR

SPOKANE

Document SPRV000020120614e8630001a

Wal-Mart Settles EEOC Religious    Discrimination  Suit

492 words
1 June 2012
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Documents
EEOD
English
© 2012 Federal Information & News Dispatch, Inc. All rights reserved.      

Press Releases and Statements

6-1-12

Wal-Mart Settles EEOC Religious Discrimination Suit

Agency Obtains $70,000 for Mormon Worker Required to Work Sundays

SEATTLE - Retail giant Wal-Mart has agreed to pay $70,000 and implement preventive measures to resolve federal religious discrimination lawsuit filed by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the agency announced today.

According to the EEOC's lawsuit, in 2009 an assistant manager at the Colville, Wash., Walmart faced discipline and threats of termination because of his observation of the Sabbath. A devout Mormon, the employee observes the Sabbath by refraining from work, and from 1995 to 2009, Wal-Mart accommodated his request for leave on Sundays. In the fall of 2009, the company revised its scheduling system and refused to continue accommodating him as it had done in the past and began to discipline him, logging each absence when he was unable to swap positions with other managers.

Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 requires employers to provide reasonable accommodations to the sincere religious beliefs of employees, as long as the accommodations do not pose an undue hardship. After an investigation by EEOC Investigator Bryne Moore, and after first attempting to reach a pre-litigation settlement through its conciliation process, the agency filed suit (EEOC v. Wal-Mart, Inc. Case No. CV-10-0338-RMP) in the Western District of Washington.

Following a settlement conference with a U.S. Magistrate Judge, the EEOC and Wal-Mart agreed to resolve the lawsuit with the entry of a consent decree that provides $70,000 in monetary and other remedies, including training to human resource personnel on the subjects of religious accommodation and anti-retaliation.

"No one should have to choose between their faith and their work," said EEOC San Francisco Regional Attorney William R. Tamayo, whose office has jurisdiction over Washington. "Accommodating a long-time, dedicated employee is a sound business practice. And federal law clearly obligates employers to provide an employee with reasonable accommodation unless it poses an undue hardship. This settlement is a fair and reasonable resolution of the lawsuit."

"When there is a conflict between religion and workplace practices, solutions can often be low or no cost, if you approach it flexibly and creatively," said San Francisco District Office Director Michael Baldonado. "Don't leave your supervisors and management in doubt about how to respond to a request for accommodation. Make it clear that failing to accommodate sincerely-held religious beliefs may put the company in violation of the law."

According to www.walmartstores.com, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) employs more than two million workers at 8,400 retail stores under 55 different banners in 15 countries and had sales of $405 billion in fiscal year 2010.

The EEOC enforces federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination. Additional information about the EEOC is available on its web site at www.eeoc.gov.

Document EEOD000020120604e86100001



NATION
NATIONAL
NATION [Derived Headline]

695 words
31 May 2012
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
PPGZ
PITTSBURGH PRESS
A-3
English
© 2012 Post Gazette Publishing Company.    Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.    All rights reserved.      

HOUSE GETTING ABORTION BILL

WASHINGTON -- Legislation coming up for a House vote would make it a federal crime to carry out an abortion based on the gender of the fetus. The measure takes aim at the aborting of female fetuses, a practice more common to countries such India and China, where there is a strong preference for sons, but which is also thought to take place in this country.

The mainly Republican supporters of the bill characterized the vote as a sex-discrimination issue at a time when Democrats are accusing Republicans of waging a war on women. Abortion rights advocates argued that the bill exploits the problem of selective abortion to further limit a woman's right to choose.

Even if it passes the House, the measure faces a dim future in the Democratic-controlled Senate.

WAL-MART WITHDRAWS FROM GROUP

NEW YORK -- Wal-Mart Stores Inc. has withdrawn its membership in a conservative political group that has come under fire as part of the Trayvon Martin case, saying it has strayed from its core mission to advance free-market principles.

The group, the American Legislative Exchange Council, or ALEC, is made up of a group of lawmakers and private sector officials and has become a lightning rod for political debate in recent months. Wal- Mart has been a member since 1993.

Liberal activists complain that ALEC, which has been around for nearly 40 years, improperly influences legislation around the country by allowing corporate leaders to develop model legislation alongside state lawmakers. They also point to some of the laws that ALEC has helped spread around the country, such as ID rules for voters and the so-called "Stand Your Ground" self-defense law that's at the center of the Florida case in which teenager Trayvon was killed.

BUS COMPANIES CLOSED

WASHINGTON -- Twenty-six bus operations that transported more than 1,800 passengers a day along Interstate 95 between New York and Florida have been closed for safety violations in what federal officials say is the government's largest single safety crackdown of the motor coach industry.

Teams of officials for the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, armed with legal orders declaring the bus operations imminent hazards to public safety, swooped down Wednesday on companies based in six states: Georgia, Indiana, Maryland, New York, North Carolina and Pennsylvania. Officials withheld details about the operation until today.

The shutdown orders were aimed at the companies' headquarters and at bus pickup locations. Most of the 233 bus routes serviced by the companies either departed from or terminated in New York City's Chinatown district.

DIOCESE PAID PROBLEM PRIESTS TO LEAVE

MILWAUKEE -- The Archdiocese of Milwaukee confirmed Wednesday that it had a policy to pay suspected pedophile priests to leave the ministry.

The acknowledgement was prompted by a document made public by abuse victims' advocates from the archdiocese's bankruptcy that references a 2003 proposal to pay $20,000 to "unassignable priests" who accepted a return to the laity. The policy was crafted under then-Archbishop Timothy Dolan, who is now a cardinal and head of the archdiocese in New York.

The Survivors Network of Those Abused by Priests characterizes the payments as a payoff and bonuses to priests who molested children. The archdiocese disputes that characterization, saying the payments were in part to more quickly move those men out of the priesthood.

YOUNG SPELLER OUT OF BEE

OXON HILL, Md. -- The youngest speller in National Spelling Bee history says she knew the word that she misspelled onstage. But she was too tired, bored and stressed out to concentrate when she stepped to the microphone.

Six-year-old Lori Anne Madison of Lake Ridge, Va., fell four points short of making the semifinals at the Scripps National Spelling Bee. If she had spelled "ingluvies" correctly during Wednesday's preliminary rounds and gotten one more word correct on a computer test, she would have achieved a qualifying score.

Lori Anne said today she was disappointed that she misspelled the word. But she didn't enjoy sitting on stage. She said her hour-and- a-half wait to spell "seemed like two millennia."

Document PPGZ000020120601e85v0000f



1
Industry Execs Woo Investors

Sharon Edelson : Molly Prior      
551 words
24 May 2012
WWD
WWD
6
ISSN: 0149-5380, Volume 203, Issue 108
English
© 2012 Condé Nast. All rights reserved.      

Executives were out making their pitch to investors Wednesday, framing their stories as Wall Street remained jittery over political and economic turmoil in Europe.

The S&P Retail Index ended the day up 1.2 percent, or 7.24 points, to 604.52, as the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 6.66 points at 12,496.15.

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. touted its new smaller format store at the Morgan Stanley Retail & Restaurant Conference in Boston. And Saks Inc. said its men's business was looking good, while Procter & Gamble Co. noted it was cutting costs, but not too much, at the Citi 2012 Global Consumer Conference in Manhattan.

Shares of Wal-Mart rose 1.3 percent to $64.58, as Saks gained 1.2 percent to $10.34 and P&G dipped 1.2 percent to $62.39.

Here's what executives from the companies had to say:

Bill Simon, chief executive officer, Wal-Mart Stores U.S.

* “I'm very happy to report a rebound in our apparel business. For the first time in [a long time] we had positive comps, in fact, midsingle-digit positive comps across our apparel business.”

* “What we're seeing is that a very basic apparel strategy in basics, with less fashion — almost no fashion — is [working], and what we call fashion basics or a mass discounter approach to apparel — that strategy is also working.”

* “We are pretty happy with the initial 10 [Wal-Mart Express stores] that we put into the ground. They're 12,000 square feet to 15,000 square feet and there's a bit of a hybrid between the food, pharmacy and convenience. We are very happy with the top line. What we are finding is that they're turning profitable within 12 months.”

Stephen I. Sadove, chairman and chief executive officer, Saks Inc.

* “You have a consumer that's discriminating. They're interested in value and want to know that whatever they're buying is worth it, but we're seeing no price resistance.”

* “I feel very good about the men's business. There's a fashion shift within the men's category with a slimmer fit and a little shorter length for sport jackets. There's a move toward formalization, a cultural shift. Men are becoming a little more fashion conscious.”

* “Ellen Tracy and Dana Buchman, cornerstones of bridge, went by the wayside. We're trying to bring a whole element of fashion to a bridge-level fit with Ralph Lauren Blue Collection, Tory Burch, Elie, M Missoni, Burberry Brit and Eileen Fisher.”

Jon Moeller, chief financial officer, Procter & Gamble Co.

* “We will not lose share as a result of pricing that is not competitive.”

* “[In February] we announced a $10 billion cost savings program. We are making progress against this, but we have a lot of work left to do.” He said $1 billion in savings will come from marketing spending, but clarified, “We are not looking to make cuts in the brand support.”

* “In today's developed market, it's more important than ever that we have offerings across price tiers. We need to provide value in the ways that consumers define it, which is not always [low-end] pricing.”

Document WWD0000020120604e85o0000r



1
Industry Execs Woo Investors

Sharon Edelson : Molly Prior      
551 words
24 May 2012
WWD
WWD
6
ISSN: 0149-5380, Volume 203, Issue 108
English
© 2012 Condé Nast. All rights reserved.      

Executives were out making their pitch to investors Wednesday, framing their stories as Wall Street remained jittery over political and economic turmoil in Europe.

The S&P Retail Index ended the day up 1.2 percent, or 7.24 points, to 604.52, as the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 6.66 points at 12,496.15.

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. touted its new smaller format store at the Morgan Stanley Retail & Restaurant Conference in Boston. And Saks Inc. said its men's business was looking good, while Procter & Gamble Co. noted it was cutting costs, but not too much, at the Citi 2012 Global Consumer Conference in Manhattan.

Shares of Wal-Mart rose 1.3 percent to $64.58, as Saks gained 1.2 percent to $10.34 and P&G dipped 1.2 percent to $62.39.

Here's what executives from the companies had to say:

Bill Simon, chief executive officer, Wal-Mart Stores U.S.

* “I'm very happy to report a rebound in our apparel business. For the first time in [a long time] we had positive comps, in fact, midsingle-digit positive comps across our apparel business.”

* “What we're seeing is that a very basic apparel strategy in basics, with less fashion — almost no fashion — is [working], and what we call fashion basics or a mass discounter approach to apparel — that strategy is also working.”

* “We are pretty happy with the initial 10 [Wal-Mart Express stores] that we put into the ground. They're 12,000 square feet to 15,000 square feet and there's a bit of a hybrid between the food, pharmacy and convenience. We are very happy with the top line. What we are finding is that they're turning profitable within 12 months.”

Stephen I. Sadove, chairman and chief executive officer, Saks Inc.

* “You have a consumer that's discriminating. They're interested in value and want to know that whatever they're buying is worth it, but we're seeing no price resistance.”

* “I feel very good about the men's business. There's a fashion shift within the men's category with a slimmer fit and a little shorter length for sport jackets. There's a move toward formalization, a cultural shift. Men are becoming a little more fashion conscious.”

* “Ellen Tracy and Dana Buchman, cornerstones of bridge, went by the wayside. We're trying to bring a whole element of fashion to a bridge-level fit with Ralph Lauren Blue Collection, Tory Burch, Elie, M Missoni, Burberry Brit and Eileen Fisher.”

Jon Moeller, chief financial officer, Procter & Gamble Co.

* “We will not lose share as a result of pricing that is not competitive.”

* “[In February] we announced a $10 billion cost savings program. We are making progress against this, but we have a lot of work left to do.” He said $1 billion in savings will come from marketing spending, but clarified, “We are not looking to make cuts in the brand support.”

* “In today's developed market, it's more important than ever that we have offerings across price tiers. We need to provide value in the ways that consumers define it, which is not always [low-end] pricing.”

Document WWD0000020120531e85o0005v

current
Walmart Sued Over P.A. Announcement Telling Black Shoppers To Leave Store

By Charles Toutant      
483 words
21 May 2012
New Jersey Law Journal
NJLJ
1
Volume 208; Issue 7
English
Copyright 2012 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

Walmart is being sued by a shopper who claims he suffered emotional distress from a rogue public address announcement.

On March 14, 2010, shoppers at Walmart in Turnersville heard a male voice calmly announce, "Attention Walmart customers: all black people must leave the store." A few minutes later, a manager went on the loudspeaker to apologize.

The store later learned by examining surveillance-camera footage that a 16-yearoldlance-camera had made the announcement. The teenager was prosecuted for harassment and bias intimidation.

Walmart says that the behavior was "unacceptable" and that it is taking steps to safeguard its public address systems against unauthorized use.

But Donnell Battie, who is black, says Walmart was negligent and reckless and showed deliberate indifference by not safeguarding the system.

In his suit, filed in Camden County Superior Court on March 14 and removed to U.S. District Court in Camden on May 11, Battie says the announcement was "reasonably likely to harass or intimidate African- American shoppers based on their race, color and/or creed."

He claims the announcement led to depression, anxiety, anger, loss of sleep and appetite, paranoia, antisocial tendencies and loss of enjoyment in activities. He says he has required medical care and will need more.

Battie's attorney, Cherry Hill solo John Klamo, says that when Battie heard the announcement, he complained to the manager, whose response was, "Don't worry about it."

Klamo says Battie found the episode particularly troubling because of prior episodes for which he had been getting professional help.

"Mr. Battie is ... has been under care of a doctor for various disabilities dealing with his psychological makeup," he says. "He's in Walmart and something of this nature presents its ugly head and it brings up past situations in his life that affected him."

Klamo adds that Walmart's failure to limit access to its P.A. system was irresponsible because if someone used it to yell "fire," patrons hurrying to the exit could be injured.

Court filings show that Walmart's lawyer, Karen Green of McDonnell & Associates in King of Prussia, Pa., wrote to Klamo on May 1 to say the company intended to remove the case to federal court on diversity grounds unless Battie agreed to limit damages to $75,000. On May 9, Klamo replied that Battie was seeking $1 million in damages, plus attorney fees and costs. On May 10, Green removed the case.

Green referred calls to Walmart. A spokesman, Greg Rossiter, says, "We were appalled by this incident and are amazed that anyone could be so backward and mean-spirited in this day and age. We are sorry it happened and apologize to any of our customers and associates who heard it. We updated our intercom system to prevent this from happening in the future."

Document NJLJ000020120521e85l00004

National News
Walmart Sued by Shopper Over P.A. Announcement in N.J. Store

BY CHARLES TOUTANT New Jersey Law Journal      
531 words
16 May 2012
The Legal Intelligencer
LINTEL
4
Volume 245; Issue 95
English
Copyright 2012 ALM Properties, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      

Walmart is being sued by a shopper who claims he suffered emotional distress from a rogue public address announcement at its Turnersville, N.J., store.

On March 14, 2010, shoppers heard a male voice calmly announce, "Attention Walmart customers: All black people must leave the store." A few minutes later, a manager went on the loudspeaker to apologize for the remarks.

The store later learned by examining surveillance-camera footage that a 16-year-old had made the announcement. The teenager was prosecuted for harassment and bias intimidation.

Walmart has said that the behavior was "unacceptable" and that it was taking steps to safeguard its public address systems against unauthorized use.

But Donnell Battie, who is black, claims Walmart was negligent and reckless, and showed deliberate indifference, by not safeguarding the P.A. system.

In his suit, filed in Camden County, N.J., Superior Court on March 14 and removed to the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey on May 11, Battie said the announcement was "reasonably likely to harass or intimidate African-American shoppers based on their race, color and/or creed."

He claims the announcement led to depression, anxiety, anger, loss of sleep and appetite, paranoia, antisocial tendencies and loss of enjoyment in activities. He said he has required medical care and will need more.

Battie's attorney, Cherry Hill, N.J., solo John Klamo, said that when Battie heard the announcement, he complained to the manager, whose response was, "Don't worry about it."

Klamo said Battie found the episode particularly troubling because of prior episodes for which he had been getting professional help.

"Mr. Battie is an individual who has been under care of a doctor for various disabilities dealing with his psychological makeup," Klamo said. "He's in Walmart and something of this nature presents its ugly head and it brings up past situations in his life that affected him."

Klamo adds that Walmart's failure to limit access to its P.A. system was irresponsible because if someone used it to yell "fire," patrons hurrying to the exit could be injured.

Klamo said Walmart's attorney, Karen Green of McDonnell & Associates in King of Prussia, Pa., wrote to him on May 1 to say the company intended to remove the case to federal court on diversity grounds unless Battie agreed to limit damages to $75,000.

On May 9, Klamo replied that Battie was seeking $1 million in damages, plus attorney fees and costs. On May 10, Green removed the case to federal court.

Green referred calls to Walmart. A company spokesman, Greg Rossiter, declined to comment on the allegations but said, "We were appalled by this incident and are amazed that anyone could be so backward and mean-spirited in this day and age. We are sorry it happened and apologize to any of our customers and associates who heard it. We updated our intercom system to prevent this from happening in the future."

Charles Toutant is a reporter for the New Jersey Law Journal, a Legal affiliate.      

Document LINTEL0020120523e85g00008



 Nation & world

519 words
16 May 2012
Charleston Gazette
CGAZ
P3A
English
(Copyright 2012)      

Wal-Mart sued

over racist remark

CAMDEN, N.J. - Wal-Mart is being sued for $1 million by a man who claims he was traumatized by a racist comment made over an intercom at a southern New Jersey store two years ago.

Donnell Battie, of Winslow, accuses Wal-Mart of being negligent in failing to control access to the store's intercom, which was used to broadcast an announcement ordering all black people to leave the Washington Township store. A 16-year-old boy was arrested days later and charged with harassment and bias intimidation.

Wal-Mart spokesman Greg Rossiter told the Courier-Post the firm has apologized and has worked to prevent it from happening again.

Battie claims he has needed medical care due to the March 2010 comment. He says it caused him "severe and disabling emotional and psychological harm."

Marijuana DUI bill rejected in Colorado

DENVER - A marijuana blood limit for drivers has been rejected for the third time in Colorado.

The state Senate fell a single vote short Tuesday on a bill setting a blood standard for THC, the psychoactive ingredient in marijuana. The vote means the proposal is likely dead for the year.

Passage of the bill would have made Colorado the third state with a blood-level limit for marijuana, much as the nation has a blood-alcohol limit of .08.

Currently, drugged-driving convictions depend on officer observations.

Marijuana activists and some lawmakers from both parties argued that the blood standard is an unfair measure of driver impairment.

Officials find floats

with Asian writing

PORT ANGELES, Wash. - Officials at a national refuge say more than two dozen floats - many with Asian writing and logos - have been found on a spit of land that juts out off northwest Washington state.

The floats are apparently part of the debris from the March 2011 Japanese tsunami that is washing into the Strait of Juan de Fuca. They were found May 5 in Dungeness Spit during the first beach cleanup of the season.

The piece of land juts into the strait north of Sequim. It is within the Dungeness National Wildlife Refuge.

Refuge Officer Dave Falzetti told the Peninsula Daily News that he's concerned about what else might show up in tsunami debris still on the way.

Stolen military

property recovered

RALEIGH, N.C. - Military authorities have recovered almost $2 million in stolen property as part of an ongoing investigation that so far involves almost 70 civilians and active-duty Marines and sailors.

A Camp Lejeune spokesman says commanders from that post and the 2nd Marine Expeditionary Force are supporting the investigation. The Naval Criminal Investigative Service is leading the investigation, which began more than 18 months ago.

NCIS spokesman Ed Buice in Quantico, Va., said Tuesday the property was sold at garage sales, out of the back of cars and other places.

Lejeune spokesman Nat Fahy said the 66 NCIS investigations involve 47 active-duty Marines and sailors, along with 21 civilians who sold stolen property. Buice says about half the cases have been settled in court.

COMPILED BY WIRE REPORTS

Document CGAZ000020120516e85g0000g

Man sues Walmart for $1 million over intercom prank

JIM WALSH      
JIM WALSH (Cherry Hill, N.J.) Courier-Post      
371 words
16 May 2012
Gannett News Service
GNS
n/a
English
© 2012 Gannett News Service. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.      

By JIM WALSH (Cherry Hill, N.J.) Courier-Post

CAMDEN, N.J. -- A man is seeking $1 million in damages, claiming a public-address announcement directed at black shoppers in a Walmart traumatized him.

Donnell Battie of Winslow, N.J., sued the retail giant over a March 14, 2010, incident at a Walmart about 25 miles south of Philadelphia in Williamstown, N.J. In that incident, a teenage shopper allegedly got on the store's intercom system and announced: "Attention, Walmart customers. All black people must leave the store."

A 16-year-old later was charged with harassment and bias intimidation in connection with that announcement and a similar one in December 2009.

In his lawsuit, Battie said Walmart was negligent in failing to control access to the intercom and that the announcement was "reasonably likely to harass or intimidate black people."

Battie said he has needed medical care because of the incident. His lawsuit contends the announcement caused "severe and disabling emotional and psychological harm, resulting in depression, anxiety, anger, loss of sleep, loss of appetite, paranoia, antisocial tendencies and loss of enjoyment in life activities."

Battie is a middle-aged black man who has experienced previous incidents of bias, said his lawyer, John Klamo of Cherry Hill, N.J.

"Prior to this, he was receiving medical care for various issues related to being discriminated against," said Klamo, who offered no details. "Here he was in a public place and again prejudice rears its ugly head."

Walmart spokesman Greg Rossiter said the company was appalled by the incident that he called backward and mean-spirited, Walmart officials have apologized and they've updated the store's intercom system to prevent future pranks.

Multiple clips on YouTube have shown teenagers using store phones and a secret code to gain access to intercom systems at Walmart stores and make storewide announcements.

The complaint, initially filed in New Jersey Superior Court in March, was moved last week to federal court here. A lawyer for Walmart requested the change after Klamo declined to limit the amount of damages sought to $75,000.

Document GNS0000020120518e85g00015



Man sues Wal-Mart for $1M, says he was traumatized by racist comment made on NJ store intercom

163 words
15 May 2012
02:35 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2012.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

CAMDEN, N.J. (AP) - Wal-Mart is being sued for $1 million by a man who claims he was traumatized by a racist comment made over an intercom at a southern New Jersey store two years ago.

Donnell Battie, of Winslow, accuses Wal-Mart of being negligent in failing to control access to the store's intercom, which was used to broadcast an announcement ordering all black people to leave the Washington Township store. A 16-year-old boy was arrested days later and charged with harassment and bias intimidation.

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. spokesman Greg Rossiter tells the Courier-Post (http://on.cpsj.com/KkdIUG) the firm has apologized and has worked to prevent it from happening again.

Battie claims he has needed medical care due to the March 2010 comment. He says it caused him "severe and disabling emotional and psychological harm."

7      

Document APRS000020120515e85f00295



Man sues Wal-Mart for $1M, says he was traumatized by racist comment made at southern NJ store

172 words
15 May 2012
02:06 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2012.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved.      

CAMDEN, N.J. (AP) - Wal-Mart is being sued for $1 million by a man who claims he was traumatized by a racist comment made over an intercom at one of the company's stores in southern New Jersey two years ago.

Donnell Battie of Winslow claims Wal-Mart was negligent in failing to control access to the store's intercom, which was used to broadcast an announcement ordering all black people to leave the Washington Township store. A 16-year-old boy was arrested days later and charged with harassment and bias intimidation.

Wal-Mart spokesman Greg Rossiter tells the Courier-Post (http://on.cpsj.com/KkdIUG) the firm has apologized for the March 2010 incident and has worked to prevent future incidents.

Battie claims he's required medical care due to the comment that caused him "severe and disabling emotional and psychological harm."

------

Information from: Courier-Post, http://www.courierpostonline.com/

7      

Document APRS000020120515e85f0027u



General News
Thailand: Thai supplier to Walmart accused of labour rights violations

482 words
14 May 2012
Thai News Service
THAINS
English
(c) 2012 Thai News Service      

Section: General News - A Thai union federation has requested that retail giant Walmart investigate allegations of labour rights violations by a Thai supplier in Songkhla province, the Bangkok Post reports.

The charges against the supplier include breach of wage obligations and withholding migrant workers' passports.

Sawit Kaewvarn, secretary-general of the State Enterprises Workers' Relations Confederation (SERC) sent a letter on Thursday to Rajan Kamalatan, an executive of Walmart's Ethical Sourcing Department, asking him to investigate alleged rights violations at Phatthana Seafood Co in Songkhla's Muang district.

There were large protests in April by migrant workers from Myanmar and Cambodia working for the company.

"SERC concluded there were labour right violations occurring in the factory on a number of different issues, including violations of the Labour Relations Act regarding contracts, wages, and compensation," said the letter.

"There were also violations of the Labour Protection Act including date, duration, job description, wages, as well as the working environment which was reported to be unsafe," it said.

The letter did not mention whether the SERC approached the company's executives with their complaints.

The SERC also said it found that workers' personal documents were confiscated, even though they were permitted to work legally in Thailand.

"Since Thai labour law provides no exceptions for migrant workers, the SERC would like to request Walmart to investigate the matter," the letter said.

Phatthana Seafood denied the allegations, saying the problem was caused by workers misunderstanding the implementation of the new minimum wage.

"We have rectified any misunderstandings with Cambodian workers," the company said. "We have always treated workers in compliance with the applicable international ethical standards."

Pairoj Chotikasatien, chief of the Employment Department in Songkhla, told You Ay, the Cambodian ambassador to Thailand, that Phatthana Seafood abided by all Thai labour laws and looked after Cambodian workers without discrimination, during her visit to the factory on April 23.

According to the minutes of a meeting between the Cambodian diplomat, the company's executives and Thai labour authorities, obtained by the Bangkok Post Sunday, the ambassador was told a misunderstanding arose among the company's 1,050 Cambodian workers when the Thai government increased the minimum wage by 40% from 176 to 246 baht per day on April 1.

Workers received their wages for March _ calculated using the old rate _ on April 5, which caused confusion.

Regarding the accusation that the company had withheld workers' personal documents, the management admitted doing so, but said it was in the best interest of workers. The company said it provided a service to help workers report to immigration officials every 90 days.

Phatthana said it would no longer accept passports, despite the fact that workers valued the service.

The Cambodian ambassador requested the company help collect passports around the time when the 90-day reports were due.

Document THAINS0020120513e85e00001



News
Walmart supplier in rights row

ACHARA ASHAYAGACHAT      
481 words
13 May 2012
Bangkok Post
BKPOST
English
(c) 2012. The Post Publishing Public Company Limited. All Rights Reserved.      

THAI FIRM ACCUSED OF CHEATING ON WAGES, SEIZING MIGRANT PASSPORTS

A Thai union federation has requested that retail giant Walmart investigate allegations of labour rights violations by a Thai supplier in Songkhla province.

The charges against the supplier include breach of wage obligations and withholding migrant workers' passports.

Sawit Kaewvarn, secretary-general of the State Enterprises Workers' Relations Confederation (SERC) sent a letter on Thursday to Rajan Kamalatan, an executive of Walmart's Ethical Sourcing Department, asking him to investigate alleged rights violations at Phatthana Seafood Co in Songkhla's Muang district.

There were large protests in April by migrant workers from Myanmar and Cambodia working for the company.

"SERC concluded there were labour right violations occurring in the factory on a number of different issues, including violations of the Labour Relations Act regarding contracts, wages, and compensation," said the letter.

"There were also violations of the Labour Protection Act including date, duration, job description, wages, as well as the working environment which was reported to be unsafe," it said.

The letter did not mention whether the SERC approached the company's executives with their complaints.

The SERC also said it found that workers' personal documents were confiscated, even though they were permitted to work legally in Thailand.

"Since Thai labour law provides no exceptions for migrant workers, the SERC would like to request Walmart to investigate the matter," the letter said.

Phatthana Seafood denied the allegations, saying the problem was caused by workers misunderstanding the implementation of the new minimum wage.

"We have rectified any misunderstandings with Cambodian workers," the company said. "We have always treated workers in compliance with the applicable international ethical standards."

Pairoj Chotikasatien, chief of the Employment Department in Songkhla, told You Ay, the Cambodian ambassador to Thailand, that Phatthana Seafood abided by all Thai labour laws and looked after Cambodian workers without discrimination, during her visit to the factory on April 23.

According to the minutes of a meeting between the Cambodian diplomat, the company's executives and Thai labour authorities, obtained by the Bangkok Post Sunday, the ambassador was told a misunderstanding arose among the company's 1,050 Cambodian workers when the Thai government increased the minimum wage by 40% from 176 to 246 baht per day on April 1.

Workers received their wages for March _ calculated using the old rate _ on April 5, which caused confusion.

Regarding the accusation that the company had withheld workers' personal documents, the management admitted doing so, but said it was in the best interest of workers. The company said it provided a service to help workers report to immigration officials every 90 days.

Phatthana said it would no longer accept passports, despite the fact that workers valued the service.

The Cambodian ambassador requested the company help collect passports around the time when the 90-day reports were due.

Document BKPOST0020120512e85d000gz



After years of working on its image, Wal-Mart braces for fallout from alleged bribery scandal

BY ANNE D'INNOCENZIO      
AP      
1,599 words
11 May 2012
05:37 PM
The Canadian Press
CPR
English
(c) 2012 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved.      

NEW YORK _ In business, you're only as good as your last good deed.

Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, in recent years has tried to repair a reputation that's been damaged by decades of criticism and legal troubles. Community activists have blamed it for damaging the neighbourhoods where it builds its stores. Labor groups have lambasted it for not treating its workers well. And politicians have called it a poor steward of the environment.

Wal-Mart has been doing things like offering employees better health care coverage and working with its suppliers to reduce environmental waste. Now, allegations that Wal-Mart paid millions of dollars in bribes to officials in Mexico threaten to derail its efforts.

The accusations highlight how difficult it is for a company as big and powerful as Wal-Mart to dig itself out of a pile of bad publicity. As history shows, the discounter's low-income customers continue to shop at the retailer even when it's having image problems. But the fallout from the latest accusations could become a distraction for the company at a time when it's battling growing competition.

The U.S. and Mexican governments reportedly are investigating the chain. Wal-Mart's stock is down almost 5 per cent since the allegations surfaced. The company and top executives are being sued by angry investors. And some shareholders are planning to vote against the re-election of several board members at Wal-Mart's annual meeting next month.

``This is a devastating blow to their reputation,'' says Jonathan Low, co-founder and partner of Predictiv, LLC, which advises corporations on their image although the firm declines to give examples because of confidentiality agreements. ``This undercuts all the initiatives they made in many areas.''

Wal-Mart says it has an ongoing investigation into the allegations, and it's co-operating with federal authorities. In the meantime, the retailer says it's conducting business as usual.

``We continue to focus on things customers care about like jobs, healthier foods, sustainability and workforce development,'' says Steven Restivo, a Wal-Mart spokesman. ``Our commitment won't change.''

NO STRANGER TO CONTROVERSY

Wal-Mart wasn't always the centre of controversy. After it was founded in 1962, the retailer expanded by keeping costs down and selling items for less than competitors. The company now has more than 10,000 stores worldwide _ many of which are the size of two football fields. But as Wal-Mart grows, so does its troubles.

Wal-Mart's size has often made it a target. Critics, politicians and activists have portrayed it as a corporate behemoth that puts profits above its workers and the neighbourhoods where it builds its stores. Anti-Wal-Mart sentiment reached a fever pitch around the beginning of the century when several groups funded by labour unions formed to oppose the company.

The groups have argued that Wal-Mart, the largest U.S. private employer with 1.4 million workers, doesn't pay fair wages or provide adequate health care. They have said the company's big-box stores are eyesores that crush small businesses and wreak havoc on traffic and commerce in local communities. They have complained that Wal-Mart hasn't taken responsibility for its impact on the environment. And they have complained that the company buys too many goods overseas.

The groups ran ad campaigns, toured around the country holding protests and tried to help organize workers. They attempted to block Wal-Mart from opening new stores in places like New York City even while competitors like Target were greeted with fanfare. Wal-Mart even was cited during the 2008 election by then-Democratic presidential hopefuls Barack Obama and John Edwards as an example of what's wrong with big business.

Then, in 2004, Wal-Mart was hit with what could have been the largest sex discrimination case in U.S. history. A group of 1.6 million female workers accused Wal-Mart of paying female workers less than male employees. Last year, the Supreme Court blocked the suit.

``Wal-Mart was battling one image problem after another,'' says Daniel Diermeier, an expert in corporate crisis management and a professor at Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management.

At the time, Wal-Mart acknowledged that the bad publicity was beginning to hurt its stock. Its shares fell 20 per cent from early 2005 to an eight-year low of $42 two years later.

Wal-Mart decided to try to reinvent itself. The company, based in Bentonville, Ark., tried to soften its image with shoppers by using the Great Recession as a way to bolster its position among its low-income shoppers. In 2007, it created a new slogan, ``Save money, live better'' to replace its long-time ``Always Low Prices.''

Wal-Mart, which like many big companies had been criticized for its large carbon footprint, also focused on what it could do to clean up the environment. For example, it worked with its expansive network of suppliers that include big Fortune 500 companies like consumer-products giants Procter & Gamble to reduce packaging.

Additionally, Wal-Mart worked on its image with employees. It improved its health care plan and provided coverage to more workers. It started offering $4 prescription drugs. The company also broke with other big corporations and endorsed a mandate that requires employers to subsidize employee health care _ a key part of President Obama's health care overhaul.

When it comes to healthier eating, Wal-Mart announced a plan to lower salts, fats and sugars in thousands of the products it sells. It also agreed to cut produce prices by 2015.

To address its image with women, Wal-Mart last year rolled out sweeping measures that it says will help women around the world, including offering training of 60,000 women working in factories in places like India. It enlisted Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, a former critic, for a project to help up to 55,000 women in Latin America and the Caribbean build businesses.

DEJA VU

Experts say the alleged bribery scandal, first reported by The New York Times last month, is stirring up new troubles for Wal-Mart. The paper reported that Wal-Mart failed to notify law enforcement even after its own investigators found evidence of bribes funneled through its Mexican unit.

If Wal-Mart is found to have violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which forbids U.S. companies from paying bribes to foreign officials, the company could face fines of hundreds of millions of dollars. Top Wal-Mart executives could lose their jobs or go to jail.

The Washington Post recently reported that the U.S. Department of Justice has been conducting a criminal investigation since December. The Justice Department declined to comment.

Two Democratic congressmen, Elijah Cummings of Maryland and Henry Waxman of California, also have launched an investigation.

``A lot of the goodwill has been jeopardized,'' says Rep. E. Cummings, (D-Maryland), ranking member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, told The Associated Press.

And Mexico's government says it's looking into the charges. President Felipe Calderon, who previously cited Wal-Mart's growth in the country as one of his administration's successes, says he's ``very angry'' about the alleged bribery scandal.

Investors are nervous, sending Wal-Mart's shares down to around $59. That's off about five per cent from when news of the bribery scandal surfaced, but above the high $40s-range they were trading at during the recession.

The California State Teachers' Retirement System, one of the nation's largest pension plans, filed a lawsuit in Delaware against Wal-Mart, asking that any financial damages as a result of its leaders' actions be returned to the company. It holds more than 5.3 million shares of Wal-Mart, or well under 1 per cent of its shares.

And leaders of New York City's pension funds are planning to vote their 4.7 million company shares against five Wal-Mart directors up for re-election next month.

``The bribery allegations are damaging,'' New York City Comptroller John Liu said in a statement. ``But reports of a widespread coverup, involving Wal-Mart's top executives, could have even more devastating consequences.''

Meanwhile, some of the groups Wal-Mart has worked with say the scandal won't harm their view of the company.

``The (bribery) story doesn't touch on our work with Wal-Mart,'' said Jon Coifman, spokesman at The Environmental Defence Fund, an environmental non-profit that worked with Wal-Mart on reducing excess packaging from suppliers. ``Nothing has changed so far.''

It's still unclear how Wal-Mart shoppers will react. Robert Passikoff is president of Brand Keys Inc., a New York customer research firm that measures the image of companies using an index that rates them based on location and value, range of merchandise, store reputation and shopping experience.

He says Wal-Mart consistently scores at about 90 on a scale of 1 to 100 on the index even during periods when its reputation is attacked. A rating of below 70 would mean it's in trouble, he says.

Historically, Passikoff says low-income Wal-Mart shoppers don't care where they shop as long as the prices are low. Still, he says well-heeled Americans who often value corporate reputation have shopped elsewhere when Wal-Mart has had image problems.

``That could happen again,'' he says.

20120511CPCPB2593      

Document CPR0000020120512e85b0009p



Recent cases cast doubt on efficacy of whistleblower programs

Jennifer A. Johnson 
637 words
11 May 2012
Phoenix Business Journal
PBJ
English
© 2012 American City Business Journals, Inc. All rights reserved. 

A recent scandal stemming from allegations that Wal-Mart de Mexico may have engaged in "widespread bribery" to accelerate its expansion in that country has raised new questions about the effectiveness of internal whistleblower programs designed to root out fraud.

Wal-Mart de Mexico is the largest foreign subsidiary of Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which is the world’s largest retailer and Arizona’s biggest private employer.

Wal-Mart executives have been accused of concealing bribery allegations and not reporting them to U.S. or Mexican authorities when they first surfaced. Those officials also have been accused of not conducting an adequate internal probe of those allegations.

Two Fiesta Bowl executives were fined in April after entering guilty pleas in a far-reaching scandal that rocked the committee responsible for the annual college football championship game. The investigation cost CEO John Junker his job. Junker pleaded guilty to charges against him, as did former Fiesta Bowl COO Natalie Wisneski.

Both cases involve accusations that executives attempted to cover up fraud instead of reporting it to regulators and conducting thorough internal investigations.

The Wal-Mart and Fiesta Bowl cases show that even large and established organizations can fail to establish effective whistleblower programs. That failure can damage a company’s reputation, result in significant costs and ultimately topple key executives.

According to a 2008 study of more than 900 cases of occupational fraud by the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners, the most expensive forms of fraud are not detected by internal controls. This is partly because those who instigate fraud work either in areas that are not tightly controlled, or in areas they control.

Companies of all sizes need to establish effective whistleblower programs to deter fraud, said Brad Preber, a national managing partner for forensic and valuation services at the Phoenix office of accounting firm Grant Thornton LLP.

New government incentives could encourage employees to go straight to regulators, rather than working within a company’s internal whistleblower program, he added, which would give companies stronger financial incentives to improve their internal controls to detect fraud.

Under the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is authorized by Congress to provide monetary awards to individuals who come forward with high-quality, original information that leads to more than

$1 million in SEC sanctions. Whistleblowers can collect between 10 percent and 30 percent of that amount.

Understanding the landscape in which a company is establishing a whistleblower program is critical, Preber said.

"There needs to be a clear definition of the whistleblower complaint process," he said, adding that companies need to make sure a dedicated whistleblower program doesn’t become an avenue for rank-and-file office complaints.

Executives who work at public companies have a duty to facilitate disclosures to regulators and shareholders in an efficient manner, Preber said. When executives see employees doing something that is contrary to the corporate objectives, they have a responsibility to report that action to regulators if they find the complaint is credible, he said.

Former Arizona Attorney General Terry Goddard said prosecutors depend on whistleblowers for most leads.

"Protections for informants from harassment and discharge are very important to the justice system," he said. "The whistleblower must be protected from retaliation."

Goddard, who now is an attorney with SNR Denton, said some corporations tend to do all in their power to cover up problems instead of fixing them.

"From a law enforcement perspective, internal procedures are not particularly effective in getting to the heart of the criminal matter quickly," he said.

Did you find this article useful? Why not subscribe  to Phoenix Business Journal for more articles and leads? Visit bizjournals.com/subscribe or call 1-866-853-3661.

Document PBJ0000020120511e85b00002



After years of working on its image, Wal-Mart braces for fallout from alleged bribery scandal

By ANNE D'INNOCENZIO 
AP Retail Writer 
1,604 words
11 May 2012
05:54 PM
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 2012.    The Associated Press.    All Rights Reserved. 

NEW YORK (AP) - In business, you're only as good as your last good deed.

Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, in recent years has tried to repair a reputation that's been damaged by decades of criticism and legal troubles. Community activists have blamed it for damaging the neighborhoods where it builds its stores. Labor groups have lambasted it for not treating its workers well. And politicians have called it a poor steward of the environment.

Wal-Mart has been doing things like offering employees better health care coverage and working with its suppliers to reduce environmental waste. Now, allegations that Wal-Mart paid millions of dollars in bribes to officials in Mexico threaten to derail its efforts.

The accusations highlight how difficult it is for a company as big and powerful as Wal-Mart to dig itself out of a pile of bad publicity. As history shows, the discounter's low-income customers continue to shop at the retailer even when it's having image problems. But the fallout from the latest accusations could become a distraction for the company at a time when it's battling growing competition.

The U.S. and Mexican governments reportedly are investigating the chain. Wal-Mart's stock is down almost 5 percent since the allegations surfaced. The company and top executives are being sued by angry investors. And some shareholders are planning to vote against the re-election of several board members at Wal-Mart's annual meeting next month.

"This is a devastating blow to their reputation," says Jonathan Low, co-founder and partner of Predictiv, LLC, which advises corporations on their image although the firm declines to give examples because of confidentiality agreements. "This undercuts all the initiatives they made in many areas."

Wal-Mart says it has an ongoing investigation into the allegations, and it's cooperating with federal authorities. In the meantime, the retailer says it's conducting business as usual.

"We continue to focus on things customers care about like jobs, healthier foods, sustainability and workforce development," says Steven Restivo, a Wal-Mart spokesman. "Our commitment won't change."

NO STRANGER TO CONTROVERSY

Wal-Mart wasn't always the center of controversy. After it was founded in 1962, the retailer expanded by keeping costs down and selling items for less than competitors. The company now has more than 10,000 stores worldwide -- many of which are the size of two football fields. But as Wal-Mart grows, so does its troubles.

Wal-Mart's size has often made it a target. Critics, politicians and activists have portrayed it as a corporate behemoth that puts profits above its workers and the neighborhoods where it builds its stores. Anti-Wal-Mart sentiment reached a fever pitch around the beginning of the century when several groups funded by labor unions formed to oppose the company.

The groups have argued that Wal-Mart, the largest U.S. private employer with 1.4 million workers, doesn't pay fair wages or provide adequate health care. They have said the company's big-box stores are eyesores that crush small businesses and wreak havoc on traffic and commerce in local communities. They have complained that Wal-Mart hasn't taken responsibility for its impact on the environment. And they have complained that the company buys too many goods overseas.

The groups ran ad campaigns, toured around the country holding protests and tried to help organize workers. They attempted to block Wal-Mart from opening new stores in places like New York City even while competitors like Target were greeted with fanfare. Wal-Mart even was cited during the 2008 election by then-Democratic presidential hopefuls Barack Obama and John Edwards as an example of what's wrong with big business.

Then, in 2004, Wal-Mart was hit with what could have been the largest sex discrimination case in U.S. history. A group of 1.6 million female workers accused Wal-Mart of paying female workers less than male employees. Last year, the Supreme Court blocked the suit.

"Wal-Mart was battling one image problem after another," says Daniel Diermeier, an expert in corporate crisis management and a professor at Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management.

At the time, Wal-Mart acknowledged that the bad publicity was beginning to hurt its stock. Its shares fell 20 percent from early 2005 to an eight-year low of $42 two years later.

Wal-Mart decided to try to reinvent itself. The company, based in Bentonville, Ark., tried to soften its image with shoppers by using the Great Recession as a way to bolster its position among its low-income shoppers. In 2007, it created a new slogan, "Save money, live better" to replace its long-time "Always Low Prices."

Wal-Mart, which like many big companies had been criticized for its large carbon footprint, also focused on what it could do to clean up the environment. For example, it worked with its expansive network of suppliers that include big Fortune 500 companies like consumer-products giants Procter & Gamble to reduce packaging.

Additionally, Wal-Mart worked on its image with employees. It improved its health care plan and provided coverage to more workers. It started offering $4 prescription drugs. The company also broke with other big corporations and endorsed a mandate that requires employers to subsidize employee health care -- a key part of President Obama's health care overhaul.

When it comes to healthier eating, Wal-Mart announced a plan to lower salts, fats and sugars in thousands of the products it sells. It also agreed to cut produce prices by 2015.

To address its image with women, Wal-Mart last year rolled out sweeping measures that it says will help women around the world, including offering training of 60,000 women working in factories in places like India. It enlisted Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, a former critic, for a project to help up to 55,000 women in Latin America and the Caribbean build businesses.

DEJA VU

Experts say the alleged bribery scandal, first reported by The New York Times last month, is stirring up new troubles for Wal-Mart. The paper reported that Wal-Mart failed to notify law enforcement even after its own investigators found evidence of bribes funneled through its Mexican unit.

If Wal-Mart is found to have violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which forbids U.S. companies from paying bribes to foreign officials, the company could face fines of hundreds of millions of dollars. Top Wal-Mart executives could lose their jobs or go to jail.

The Washington Post recently reported that the U.S. Department of Justice has been conducting a criminal investigation since December. The Justice Department declined to comment.

Two Democratic congressmen, Elijah Cummings of Maryland and Henry Waxman of California, also have launched an investigation.

"A lot of the goodwill has been jeopardized," says Rep. E. Cummings, (D-Maryland), ranking member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, told The Associated Press.

And Mexico's government says it's looking into the charges. President Felipe Calderon, who previously cited Wal-Mart's growth in the country as one of his administration's successes, says he's "very angry" about the alleged bribery scandal.

Investors are nervous, sending Wal-Mart's shares down to around $59. That's off about five percent from when news of the bribery scandal surfaced, but above the high $40s-range they were trading at during the recession.

The California State Teachers' Retirement System, one of the nation's largest pension plans, filed a lawsuit in Delaware against Wal-Mart, asking that any financial damages as a result of its leaders' actions be returned to the company. It holds more than 5.3 million shares of Wal-Mart, or well under 1 percent of its shares.

And leaders of New York City's pension funds are planning to vote their 4.7 million company shares against five Wal-Mart directors up for re-election next month.

"The bribery allegations are damaging," New York City Comptroller John Liu said in a statement. "But reports of a widespread cover-up, involving Wal-Mart's top executives, could have even more devastating consequences."

Meanwhile, some of the groups Wal-Mart has worked with say the scandal won't harm their view of the company.

"The (bribery) story doesn't touch on our work with Wal-Mart," said Jon Coifman, spokesman at The Environmental Defense Fund, an environmental nonprofit that has been working with Wal-Mart on a number of initiatives like reducing excess packaging from suppliers. "Nothing has changed so far."

It's still unclear how Wal-Mart shoppers will react. Robert Passikoff is president of Brand Keys Inc., a New York customer research firm that measures the image of companies using an index that rates them based on location and value, range of merchandise, store reputation and shopping experience.

He says Wal-Mart consistently scores at about 90 on a scale of 1 to 100 on the index even during periods when its reputation is attacked. A rating of below 70 would mean it's in trouble, he says.

Historically, Passikoff says low-income Wal-Mart shoppers don't care where they shop as long as the prices are low. Still, he says well-heeled Americans who often value corporate reputation have shopped elsewhere when Wal-Mart has had image problems.

"That could happen again," he says.

7 

Document APRS000020120511e85b0028e





FILE - In this Tuesday, June 21, 2011 file photo, demonstrators hold signs...

Evan Vucci, STF      
The Associated Press      
108 words
11 May 2012
02:23 PM
AP Photostream
APPIC
English
Copyright 2012. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.      

FILE - In this Tuesday, June 21, 2011 file photo, demonstrators hold signs outside the Supreme Court in Washington to protest the court's Wal-Mart sex discrimination class action lawsuit decision. For years, the world's largest retailer has tried to repair a reputation that's been damaged by decades of criticism and legal troubles. In April 2012, allegations that Wal-Mart paid bribes to officials in Mexico threaten to derail Wal-Mart's attempts to improve its image. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)

Transmission reference: NY687; Slug: Wal Mart Reputation      

Document APPIC00020120511e85b00cih



BRE
Grocery shoppers have power to shun imported food Business |Watch

1,035 words
10 May 2012
Cape Times
CAPTIM
E1
18
English
© 2012 Independent Newspapers (Pty) Ltd      

Wayne Hook, the chief executive of The Spar Group, says the company is doing its best not to increase imports of food and is talking to local suppliers to help it stay competitive as its rivals import cheaper groceries.

The group's direct imports account for less than 5 percent of its goods, which does not account for what suppliers may import.

Hook says: "We are not trying to import food. We are opposed to importing food. We don't think its good for the country as it takes jobs away." He adds that the group will only increase imports if "we are forced to". That is, if its local suppliers can't compete with the cheaper imported products being stocked by competitors.

Hook concedes that at certain times of the year Spar's imports do rise, such as Christmas when toys come in from China and fancy food may be sourced from other parts of the world.

The issue of imports, specifically food, raised its head during Walmart's much talked about acquisition of control of Massmart, as fears emerged that Walmart, with its massive global supply chain, would replace local suppliers with cheaper food sourced elsewhere. Massmart is already working with local suppliers to become globally competitive as part of the conditions of the deal. Only time will tell if its imports increase exponentially under Walmart's influence.

While Massmart was the lightning rod for outrage on this issue, other local retailers already import food and probably have being doing so for quite some time. To what extent is not clear.

If the outrage over imports is genuine then consumers can opt not to buy these products (although it is not always obvious what is imported and what is local). But indignation tends to dissipate when one is standing in the aisle in the supermarket and suddenly it seems unpalatable to spend R2 more on a local tin of, say, canned tomatoes when a cheaper imported version will spread the budget that much further.

So if we cannot rely on hard-pressed consumers to push back against this trend, who then? page 19

Transport

It must have been a slip of the forked tongue, but earlier this week the transport ministry sent out a statement on the resignation of the bossman at the SA National Roads Agency Limited (Sanral), Nazir Alli. The official, Sello Tshipi, sent an e-mail to journalists stating the subject as: "Media statement: Resignation of Nazi (sic) Alli".

The statement, signed by Tiyani Rikhotso, a spokesman at the Department of Transport, but sent out by the hapless Tshipi, said the Sanral board had indicated to Transport Minister S'bu Ndebele that they were working on appointing a person to act as chief executive when Alli "eventually leaves the organisation, until the recruitment and selection process for a new chief executive has been finalised". Alli will remain in his post to June 3.

Alli has presided over the agency which has been given the unfortunate task of implementing government toll policy. Until it was recently temporarily reversed, this meant that it had to roll out the e-tag tolling system in Gauteng. Clearly Alli has now had enough of all the public flak he has received as a consequence of a policy that even Deputy Transport Minister Jeremy Cronin feels uncomfortable with. After Gauteng road users came close to having to fork out lots of money if they wished to travel each day to work and back, the chickens came home to roost.

Despite the fact that Alli said his agency was merely the implementer of government policy, which required the huge cost of upgrading roads and tolling infrastructure be paid for by the motorist, he found himself - like his minister - undercut by the ruling party, which after talks with Cosatu, backtracked at least temporarily.

Deputy President Kgalema Motlanthe will have to find a way around the problem, now that he heads a toll road task team. Perhaps Alli will have a chance to take the high road.

Wine

South African wines have benefited in export markets from the publicity given to the environmentally friendly policies followed by many of our wine producers.

Now many of our export wines will carry a seal confirming that fair labour was practised at every stage of production. Wines of South Africa, the organisation promoting our wine exports, is supporting an initiative by the Wine Industry Ethical Trade Association (Wieta) to monitor all wine production and ensure it is produced in reasonable conditions and meets closely monitored criteria.

The Wieta code of good practice is based on the International Labour Convention's Ethical Trading Initiative and on local law. It precludes the use of children and insists that jobs be freely chosen and all staff have a right to a healthy and safe working environment, freedom of association, a living wage and protection from unfair discrimination. Worker housing and security of tenure is to be respected - a condition preventing the recurrence of reported cases of new owners turning long-term staff on wine estates and farms out of their cottages to make way for new occupants.

A recent report by a social worker that there were undesirable conditions on some wine estates caused an outcry from many in the industry, who insisted that these were to be found only in a minority of cases. Wieta chief executive Linda Lipparoni says that introducing the seal will acknowledge the farms and wineries that follow ethical practices and protect them from any negative publicity resulting from those who flout the law.

She says the industry has no place for the few who, by perpetuating unfair, inhumane labour practices, are tarnishing the image of the majority who recognise that the ethical treatment of workers is both a moral and legal obligation.

Rico Basson, the chief executive of Vinpro, the umbrella organisation representing the industry, says the initiative intends to increase confidence in South African wines in both domestic and international markets and capitalise on the industry's global leadership in eco-sustainable production.

Edited by Samantha Enslin-Payne. With contributions by Donwald Pressly and Audrey D'Angelo

Document CAPTIM0020120513e85a00087



BRE
Grocery shoppers have power to shun imported food Business |Watch

1,035 words
10 May 2012
The Mercury
MERCRY
E1
2
English
© 2012 Independent Newspapers (Pty) Ltd      

Wayne Hook, the chief executive of The Spar Group, says the company is doing its best not to increase imports of food and is talking to local suppliers to help it stay competitive as its rivals import cheaper groceries.

The group's direct imports account for less than 5 percent of its goods, which does not account for what suppliers may import.

Hook says: "We are not trying to import food. We are opposed to importing food. We don't think its good for the country as it takes jobs away." He adds that the group will only increase imports if "we are forced to". That is, if its local suppliers can't compete with the cheaper imported products being stocked by competitors.

Hook concedes that at certain times of the year Spar's imports do rise, such as Christmas when toys come in from China and fancy food may be sourced from other parts of the world.

The issue of imports, specifically food, raised its head during Walmart's much talked about acquisition of control of Massmart, as fears emerged that Walmart, with its massive global supply chain, would replace local suppliers with cheaper food sourced elsewhere. Massmart is already working with local suppliers to become globally competitive as part of the conditions of the deal. Only time will tell if its imports increase exponentially under Walmart's influence.

While Massmart was the lightning rod for outrage on this issue, other local retailers already import food and probably have being doing so for quite some time. To what extent is not clear.

If the outrage over imports is genuine then consumers can opt not to buy these products (although it is not always obvious what is imported and what is local). But indignation tends to dissipate when one is standing in the aisle in the supermarket and suddenly it seems unpalatable to spend R2 more on a local tin of, say, canned tomatoes when a cheaper imported version will spread the budget that much further.

So if we cannot rely on hard-pressed consumers to push back against this trend, who then? page 3

Transport

It must have been a slip of the forked tongue, but earlier this week the transport ministry sent out a statement on the resignation of the bossman at the SA National Roads Agency Limited (Sanral), Nazir Alli. The official, Sello Tshipi, sent an e-mail to journalists stating the subject as: "Media statement: Resignation of Nazi (sic) Alli".

The statement, signed by Tiyani Rikhotso, a spokesman at the Department of Transport, but sent out by the hapless Tshipi, said the Sanral board had indicated to Transport Minister S'bu Ndebele that they were working on appointing a person to act as chief executive when Alli "eventually leaves the organisation, until the recruitment and selection process for a new chief executive has been finalised". Alli will remain in his post to June 3.

Alli has presided over the agency which has been given the unfortunate task of implementing government toll policy. Until it was recently temporarily reversed, this meant that it had to roll out the e-tag tolling system in Gauteng. Clearly Alli has now had enough of all the public flak he has received as a consequence of a policy that even Deputy Transport Minister Jeremy Cronin feels uncomfortable with. After Gauteng road users came close to having to fork out lots of money if they wished to travel each day to work and back, the chickens came home to roost.

Despite the fact that Alli said his agency was merely the implementer of government policy, which required the huge cost of upgrading roads and tolling infrastructure be paid for by the motorist, he found himself - like his minister - undercut by the ruling party, which after talks with Cosatu, backtracked at least temporarily.

Deputy President Kgalema Motlanthe will have to find a way around the problem, now that he heads a toll road task team. Perhaps Alli will have a chance to take the high road.

Wine

South African wines have benefited in export markets from the publicity given to the environmentally friendly policies followed by many of our wine producers.

Now many of our export wines will carry a seal confirming that fair labour was practised at every stage of production. Wines of South Africa, the organisation promoting our wine exports, is supporting an initiative by the Wine Industry Ethical Trade Association (Wieta) to monitor all wine production and ensure it is produced in reasonable conditions and meets closely monitored criteria.

The Wieta code of good practice is based on the International Labour Convention's Ethical Trading Initiative and on local law. It precludes the use of children and insists that jobs be freely chosen and all staff have a right to a healthy and safe working environment, freedom of association, a living wage and protection from unfair discrimination. Worker housing and security of tenure is to be respected - a condition preventing the recurrence of reported cases of new owners turning long-term staff on wine estates and farms out of their cottages to make way for new occupants.

A recent report by a social worker that there were undesirable conditions on some wine estates caused an outcry from many in the industry, who insisted that these were to be found only in a minority of cases. Wieta chief executive Linda Lipparoni says that introducing the seal will acknowledge the farms and wineries that follow ethical practices and protect them from any negative publicity resulting from those who flout the law.

She says the industry has no place for the few who, by perpetuating unfair, inhumane labour practices, are tarnishing the image of the majority who recognise that the ethical treatment of workers is both a moral and legal obligation.

Rico Basson, the chief executive of Vinpro, the umbrella organisation representing the industry, says the initiative intends to increase confidence in South African wines in both domestic and international markets and capitalise on the industry's global leadership in eco-sustainable production.

Edited by Samantha Enslin-Payne. With contributions by Donwald Pressly and Audrey D'Angelo

Document MERCRY0020120513e85a00088



BRE
Grocery shoppers have power to shun imported food Business |Watch

1,035 words
10 May 2012
The Star
THESTR
E1
2
English
© 2012 Independent Newspapers (Pty) Ltd      

Wayne Hook, the chief executive of The Spar Group, says the company is doing its best not to increase imports of food and is talking to local suppliers to help it stay competitive as its rivals import cheaper groceries.

The group's direct imports account for less than 5 percent of its goods, which does not account for what suppliers may import.

Hook says: "We are not trying to import food. We are opposed to importing food. We don't think its good for the country as it takes jobs away." He adds that the group will only increase imports if "we are forced to". That is, if its local suppliers can't compete with the cheaper imported products being stocked by competitors.

Hook concedes that at certain times of the year Spar's imports do rise, such as Christmas when toys come in from China and fancy food may be sourced from other parts of the world.

The issue of imports, specifically food, raised its head during Walmart's much talked about acquisition of control of Massmart, as fears emerged that Walmart, with its massive global supply chain, would replace local suppliers with cheaper food sourced elsewhere. Massmart is already working with local suppliers to become globally competitive as part of the conditions of the deal. Only time will tell if its imports increase exponentially under Walmart's influence.

While Massmart was the lightning rod for outrage on this issue, other local retailers already import food and probably have being doing so for quite some time. To what extent is not clear.

If the outrage over imports is genuine then consumers can opt not to buy these products (although it is not always obvious what is imported and what is local). But indignation tends to dissipate when one is standing in the aisle in the supermarket and suddenly it seems unpalatable to spend R2 more on a local tin of, say, canned tomatoes when a cheaper imported version will spread the budget that much further.

So if we cannot rely on hard-pressed consumers to push back against this trend, who then? page 3

Transport

It must have been a slip of the forked tongue, but earlier this week the transport ministry sent out a statement on the resignation of the bossman at the SA National Roads Agency Limited (Sanral), Nazir Alli. The official, Sello Tshipi, sent an e-mail to journalists stating the subject as: "Media statement: Resignation of Nazi (sic) Alli".

The statement, signed by Tiyani Rikhotso, a spokesman at the Department of Transport, but sent out by the hapless Tshipi, said the Sanral board had indicated to Transport Minister S'bu Ndebele that they were working on appointing a person to act as chief executive when Alli "eventually leaves the organisation, until the recruitment and selection process for a new chief executive has been finalised". Alli will remain in his post to June 3.

Alli has presided over the agency which has been given the unfortunate task of implementing government toll policy. Until it was recently temporarily reversed, this meant that it had to roll out the e-tag tolling system in Gauteng. Clearly Alli has now had enough of all the public flak he has received as a consequence of a policy that even Deputy Transport Minister Jeremy Cronin feels uncomfortable with. After Gauteng road users came close to having to fork out lots of money if they wished to travel each day to work and back, the chickens came home to roost.

Despite the fact that Alli said his agency was merely the implementer of government policy, which required the huge cost of upgrading roads and tolling infrastructure be paid for by the motorist, he found himself - like his minister - undercut by the ruling party, which after talks with Cosatu, backtracked at least temporarily.

Deputy President Kgalema Motlanthe will have to find a way around the problem, now that he heads a toll road task team. Perhaps Alli will have a chance to take the high road.

Wine

South African wines have benefited in export markets from the publicity given to the environmentally friendly policies followed by many of our wine producers.

Now many of our export wines will carry a seal confirming that fair labour was practised at every stage of production. Wines of South Africa, the organisation promoting our wine exports, is supporting an initiative by the Wine Industry Ethical Trade Association (Wieta) to monitor all wine production and ensure it is produced in reasonable conditions and meets closely monitored criteria.

The Wieta code of good practice is based on the International Labour Convention's Ethical Trading Initiative and on local law. It precludes the use of children and insists that jobs be freely chosen and all staff have a right to a healthy and safe working environment, freedom of association, a living wage and protection from unfair discrimination. Worker housing and security of tenure is to be respected - a condition preventing the recurrence of reported cases of new owners turning long-term staff on wine estates and farms out of their cottages to make way for new occupants.

A recent report by a social worker that there were undesirable conditions on some wine estates caused an outcry from many in the industry, who insisted that these were to be found only in a minority of cases. Wieta chief executive Linda Lipparoni says that introducing the seal will acknowledge the farms and wineries that follow ethical practices and protect them from any negative publicity resulting from those who flout the law.

She says the industry has no place for the few who, by perpetuating unfair, inhumane labour practices, are tarnishing the image of the majority who recognise that the ethical treatment of workers is both a moral and legal obligation.

Rico Basson, the chief executive of Vinpro, the umbrella organisation representing the industry, says the initiative intends to increase confidence in South African wines in both domestic and international markets and capitalise on the industry's global leadership in eco-sustainable production.

Edited by Samantha Enslin-Payne. With contributions by Donwald Pressly and Audrey D'Angelo

Document THESTR0020120513e85a0009q

Local
Three arrested in Hamburg graffiti spree ; Vandalism defaced two churches and other buildings

Jay Tokasz      
NEWS STAFF REPORTER      
579 words
9 May 2012
Buffalo News
BFNW
Final
B1
English
© 2012 Buffalo News.    Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.    All rights reserved.      

Three Southtowns men were charged with spray painting graffiti on two Hamburg churches and several other buildings in a spree of tagging late Sunday or early Monday.

Hamburg police received an anonymous tip that helped lead them to the defendants, Samuel Echeverria and Zachery Wasyl, both of Hamburg, and Sean Ratliff, of Angola. All three are 19 years old.

The graffiti created a stir in the hamlet of Wanakah, near Lake Shore Road, where most of the tagging was found.

Most of the buildings were defaced with a depiction of a crown and the word "BLANK" spelled out with green spray paint.

St. Mary of the Lake Catholic School also was spray-painted with the word "SATAN" in purple above the building's cornerstone, which includes a carved cross. And another area of the school was spray- painted with "6.6.6" -- a number that in the biblical Book of Revelation alludes to the mark of the "antichrist" and often is associated with evil.

"That kind of graffiti on a house of worship is certainly troubling," said Kevin A. Keenan, spokesman for the Catholic Diocese of Buffalo.

Keenan credited Hamburg police with taking the incident seriously and working quickly to find the culprits.

The crude references weren't the work of occult members or devil worshippers, Hamburg police said.

"It's kids acting stupid," said Detective Todd Ehret. "To me, it's clear they're not Satanic worshippers or anything like that."

The parish hired Suburban Property Maintenance to clean up the mess with a power washer and chemical sprays.

The other church defaced was Bible Fellowship Church on Rogers Road, where Pastor William Flick used lacquer thinner Tuesday afternoon to remove spray paint from the church's vinyl siding.

"I'm the pastor here -- and the janitor," said Flick, who discovered the graffiti while walking his dog behind the church Monday morning.

The backside of the church was sprayed with an obscenity, along with the "BLANK"-and-crown tag and a depiction of a marijuana plant.

"I just think it was kids being stupid and not using their heads and not being respectful," he said.

The alleged taggers also marked Wanakah Pharmacy on Lake Shore Road, Cloverbank Elementary School on Cloverbank Road and Walmart on Route 20, police said.

After getting the tip, police located video evidence from Walmart that shows Echeverria leaving the store with stolen spray paint and getting into a white Ford Taurus with Wasyl and Ratliff.

The three males then exit the car and start to paint graffiti on Walmart's building, police said the video shows.

Police showed up at the church Monday morning with one of the defendants, according to Flick, who said he was told the three admitted to the crimes.

"Two of them were remorseful. One still thought it was pretty funny," said Flick.

Echeverria, Wasyl and Ratliff were charged with making graffiti, third-degree criminal mischief and first-degree aggravated harassment for the defacement of churches.

email: jtokasz@buffnews.com

Caption: James P. McCoy/Buffalo News    Andy Zeitz, left, and Matt Wind remove graffiti Tuesday at St. Mary of the Lake Catholic School in Hamburg. Three 19-year-old Southtowns men have been arrested in multiple incidents in the town. The signature graffiti used at all sites is shown Tuesday at Bible Fellowship Church on Rogers Road in Hamburg.      

Document BFNW000020120510e8590000n

News; Domestic
The Recovery Needs a Recovery; Socialist Policies Ruining the Economy; Stock Market Thrives Despite Economic Woes; Lawmakers Target FaceBook Privacy Intrusions by Employers; New York City Pension Fund Challenges Wal-Mart Directors on Mexican Misdeeds

Neil Cavuto      
8,485 words
4 May 2012
Fox Business Network: Cavuto
FBNCVT
English
© 2012 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.      

NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: Game, set, match! This recovery slowing, stalled and now stopped.

Welcome, everybody. I'm Neil Cavuto.

The Dow diving 168 points as jobs proved far from booming. They're barely developing, a far fewer than expected 115,000 Americans finding jobs at all last month. That's what clinched it that this recovery needs a recovery because with job growth sputtering out doesn't seal it on a government report, barely that many finding jobs in the private sector ADP report should remove all doubt, growing doubts about this economy and growing indications we could be going into reverse, factory orders stalling, consumer sentiment numbers sliding, retail sales hurting.

One or two pieces of data are bound to be erratic (ph), but this, my friends, is a constant, as constant now on the down side as the steadily albeit slowly improving numbers were on the up side. And that was just a few months ago, when it looked like we were turning the corner. Not now, when it looks like once again a much hoped-for rebound is hitting a ditch.

Hard to say. This much is not. The trend is not the economy's friend. And for the guy overseeing it, it is not anything close. Market analyst Kyle Harrington says now it's not just weaker, it's just weak.

This pretty much confirms what you're saying, Kyle. Explain.

KYLE HARRINGTON, HARRINGTON CAPITAL MANAGEMENT: Neil, I've been saying this all along, OK? I went to Princeton University and the Wharton Business School. I don't know a lot, but I've done a lot of math in my life, and I've been saying this for a long time now, that this unemployment rate's not the real unemployment rate.

You can play fuzzy math across, you know, different numbers and across the Labor Department, but not with me. And I'll tell you why. The real unemployment rate is in the teens, 342,000 people dropped off the unemployment payrolls, OK? The average length of any individual on unemployment is 39 weeks. None of those numbers have changed. And it continues in that way.

And unless we have an administration that wants to talk about fiscal Republican, we have problems!

CAVUTO: All right, but this kind of development, the government overdoing it and rescues that themselves need rescues, while it might have increased under this president, it started under the last president. So I think it's fair to say it's a bipartisan spending problem we've got.

But let's say we were to address that immediately. What would change? I mean, how would the markets respond? How would the economy respond?

HARRINGTON: The economy would respond I think very well. Let me tell you this. There needs to be less -- there needs to be less regulatory burdens on small business owners. The small business owners and the entrepreneurs that I talk to, Neil, are stifled by regulatory concerns! They're stifled by legal fees.

And so you know what that does? The entrepreneur says, I'm not going to hire. I need to sit back and have enough cash in my bank account in an effort to pay these situations that may come up to stifle my business.

So what we need is we need less government intervention, less bureaucracy, less regulatory burdens so that the entrepreneur can breathe, go out and say, You know what? I want to hire.

CAVUTO: Kyle, thank you very much, Kyle Harrington of San Diego.

Still, the unemployment rate did drop, but that has a lot more to do with frustrated Americans giving up looking for work. The U.S. labor force is now at its lowest level in 30 years. Still, the White House today saying it's going to continue with economic policies it insists are working.

Cypress Semiconductor CEO T.J. Rodgers says it's time to do something new here, or maybe try someone new. T.J., obviously, something is happening here. We're being interrupted here. It's more than just a short-lived phenomenon going on here. What do you think it is?

T.J. RODGERS, CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CEO: It's real simple. When you practice socialist economic policies, you suck money out of the private sector, the productive sector, you put it to work on shovel-ready jobs, the net value created by those jobs is less in society at large, and therefore, there's less wealth, and it trickles down to the worst (ph).

Trickle-down is a good thing when we're doing well. Trickle-down is horrible when we're not doing well, and that's what's happening right now.

One more comment, Neil. Don't be so quick to give credit. If you look at a job, you know, people have lost their jobs, the numbers is going like this. And there was a tick down. But if you look at a six-month trend, it goes like that. And somebody looks at the noise and -- Oh, yes, it went down.

Go look at the data and just put in average through it. You'll find it's been stalled at about 350,000 jobs per month for the last six months.

CAVUTO: No, you're right about that. That alone should not be happening in a recovery at this stage, regardless. But I guess I'd like to check what you do at Cypress as a result. I mean, you always hear these stories, and they're legendary now, that all of you guys are sitting on cash. You're worried about these regulations, worried about the health care law, worried about the global environment, worried about the U.S. spending environment, and you're not doing much or you're just guarding very carefully the money you have.

Is that true? I mean, if businesses see a great opportunity, don't they just do their own thing regardless?

RODGERS: Yes and no. We're doing exactly what you said although we have very little cash right now because they took all my cash and bought back my shares because the market's so lousy, our shares are cheap and I had a chance to get them out of the market.

But see, if I wanted to spend more money right now, the way you'd move forward is you'd hire R&D people and you'd increase your R&D spending. And what you're doing then is you're getting buildings, putting people in it and taking on mouths to feed.

And in this uncertain environment, it just doesn't make sense. We already have -- you know, we spend a lot of money in R&D today, and to get a little bit more aggressive, you got to be sure about it.

And I don't -- just one little micro-story. The -- you know this -- this subsidy they have for clean energy? Well, you know, if you check in the solar industry, what's happening (INAUDIBLE) the subsidy, there are companies in the United States that make a living installing Chinese solar cells, and the federal government today is installing Chinese solar cells subsidized.

What's going to happen when they put some cockamamie scheme in my industry and the industry of my customers and I got a hundred new R&D people I got to feed?

CAVUTO: That's what you worry about, that the intrusiveness gets to the point where you'd be more inclined to hang onto the dough you have, right?

RODGERS: I have enough to get me through -- I kept enough money to get me through two or three bad quarters. You know, I...

CAVUTO: And that's it?

RODGERS: The other part of...

CAVUTO: Wait, wait. Two or three bad quarters, and then after that, then what?

RODGERS: Well, we're debt-free, OK? But I have enough money to be debt- free.

CAVUTO: I see.

RODGERS: But see, the other part about being lean is the leaner you are, the longer you can last during hard times. It's not necessarily that I need to be lean right now. We just bought back 600 million bucks worth of stock. I could have spent that on jobs instead. But what happens if I get the people and my expenses go up and my ability to endure a lean cycle goes down?

CAVUTO: Well put. T.J., thank you very much.

RODGERS: You're welcome. Thank you.

CAVUTO: Well, if there was any doubt this recovery is weak, this (INAUDIBLE) proof, the NASDAQ, S&P seeing their worst weeks all year. But Lenore Hawkins says as the economy and jobs drop off, do not expect stocks to keep selling off. She's joined by Jonathan Hoenig and Adam Lashinsky.

Lenore, explain. You don't think it's necessarily the case that stocks follow this sort of stumbling economy?

LENORE HAWKINS, PRINCIPAL, MERITAS ADVISORS: No, not necessarily. We've seen across the globe where bad economic news can actually induce, in some perversion of the market, a rise in the market because everyone looks out and says, Well, this is going to induce some central bank activity. We saw it as early as last January. As China was starting to slow, the Hong Kong market actually returned that favorably.

CAVUTO: Well, you know, that's a kind of a weird -- very understandable premise if you think about that, Jonathan, that the markets would resist this and not succumb to this because the Fed, I guess, will play the role of sugar daddy again.

JONATHAN HOENIG, CAPITALISTPIG ASSET MANAGEMENT: Well, Neil, the Fed has done that in the recent recovery, which we know by today's economic statistics -- let's go to last week's GDP report, also anemic -- that intervention really hasn't worked. I mean, I long for the recovery like we saw in 1982, a, recovery that's not only an expansion of business activity but an upswing in the stock market and an uptick in employment.

You mentioned earlier in your program the labor force participation now is at a 30-year low. And every element in which we've seen intervention from the president -- jobs, housing, green energy, as T.J. Rodgers talked about -- they've all been a failure. So if we continue down with this same economic philosophy, why would the outcome be any different?

CAVUTO: Adam?

ADAM LASHINSKY, FORTUNE MAGAZINE: Well, I really object to T.J. Rodgers trotting out this talk about socialism, which is really a bunch of nonsense because we're not on a particularly different trajectory than we've been on.

We know, for example, Neil, that we've added an average of 200,000 jobs per month for the last four months. We could be focusing on that positive. We could also be focusing on the fact that the market is up quite a bit this year. So a 160-point drop in the Dow is -- you know, it's not the direction that bulls would like to see it go, but it's not the end of the world, either.

And the economic recovery is still ongoing. All is not lost, although I do note the sort of gleeful tone by people who hope that this make it difficult for the president to get reelected. That's fairly obvious.

CAVUTO: I don't think (INAUDIBLE) political side of it. Lenore, I'm looking at the fact of just having covered a lot of recoveries over my very long-grained career. And this is a weak recovery. You don't have to put a political label on it. It's a very weak recovery.

You could argue the president inherited an even weaker situation. I'm not here to debate that. I guess what I'm saying is...

HAWKINS: Absolutely.

CAVUTO: ... is the market, Lenore -- is the market telling you, Lenore, that they think that what will save their proverbial bacon is the Fed, not the president, not Congress, the Fed.

HAWKINS: That's the only thing right now that's been keeping the markets going. We had -- much of the run-up from first quarter was -- I believe a lot of it was from the LTR 02 (ph) from the ECB. Because fundamentally, things aren't going well. You look at Q4, GDP growth was 3 percent. Now it's down to 2.2 percent, despite an unbelievably warm (ph) season, which should have really boosted the economic growth. And we still only got 2.2 percent.

What I really look at is employment as a percent of the population. And that is only at 58.4 percent. It's all of .2 percent above the absolute bottom at the depths of the recession in December of 2009.

So an unprecedented level of fiscal stimulus, an unprecedented level of money printing by the Fed, and this is all we've got to show for it?

CAVUTO: All right, final point (INAUDIBLE)

HOENIG: Right. It is -- it is -- it's been for naught, Neil. That's the irony. The more we've done to fix the economy, the worse it's become. You don't even have to go back 20 years, go back 20 years after the Internet bust. The recovery was much quicker not only in the stock market but employment, as well. No big stimulus back then.

CAVUTO: All right, guys. Hang on there. We're going to have to back in 30 minutes. That's when the panel comes back.

In the meantime, the economy nothing to marvel over. So we're calling on the Avengers to save us. How Captain America will get jobs back in America.

Then Pat Boone. He's not patting the president on the back, like the rest of Hollywood. He's in front of the push to get the guy out.

But next, everyone talking about FaceBook going public. Well, my next guest's all about keeping it private and keeping companies from using it to invade your privacy.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CAVUTO: As FaceBook gets ready to go public, Mark Zuckerberg avoiding the public, Charlie Gasparino leaning the FaceBook CEO likely will not appear at Monday's first event in New York to rally investors. He's worried, apparently, about security.

Meanwhile, my next guest coming to the defense of FaceBook users because of privacy and security concerns. New York Democratic congressman Eliot Engel co-sponsored a bill to ban potential employers from asking applicants for their username and password.

Congressman, good to see you in the flesh.

REP. ELIOT ENGEL (D), NEW YORK: Thank you. Good to be here.

CAVUTO: You're concerned that this is a big intrusion on privacy, pretty much.

ENGEL: Well, it's an intrusion of privacy if some -- -an employer says to someone, Unless you give me your personal password so I can go on line and look everything up about you, I'm not going to hire you.

And I don't think that's a privacy that people should be forced to give up. I have nothing against anyone going on line and looking up anybody that some -- wants to put information up on FaceBook. I have no problem with that. People can control how much privacy they want on FaceBook. But I do have problems with, as a bottom line in terms of getting the job, you have to give up your password or things like that. I don't think that's right.

CAVUTO: Now, I'm not saying, Congressman, you should condone what employers might or might not ask for, but shouldn't you be devoting your time to just making sure they hire people?

ENGEL: Well, I'm multi-faceted. I think we can do both. I think we can...

CAVUTO: But you're not doing that.

ENGEL: Well...

CAVUTO: The hiring part. You're not doing that (INAUDIBLE)

ENGEL: Well, I think Congress needs to get its act together and try to do things on a bipartisan basis so that we...

CAVUTO: Because the rap from those employers, sir, is that you guys don't like them, that the president, Democratic leaders such as yourself, don't like employers, and any time you can find a case where it looks like they're intruding on privacy (INAUDIBLE) you're certainly going to (INAUDIBLE) that that's icky, to say the least -- you'll pounce on that.

ENGEL: No, I don't think one thing has anything to do with another. And I love employers. I hope they can...

CAVUTO: Well, I was just talking to one at the start of the show...

ENGEL: ... they can...

CAVUTO: ... that you could not have been -- not you specifically -- a more inhospitable environment.

ENGEL: Well, I just think -- and it's not only employers, by the way, it's universities. They sometimes do this to allow people to serve on sports teams. They want to know personal information about them.

I think the right to privacy is very important. And by the way, some of my Republican colleagues, I'm sure, agree with me, like Ron Paul and...

CAVUTO: No, no, no doubt. But I guess what I'm saying is I think that's a legitimate beef. The FaceBook have said, you know, Not on our watch. We don't even like employers asking for it. So there's some of that.

I guess I see a lot more effort looking at this sort of stuff than getting employers to just hire people, to provide the environment to hire people. Then we can go over the details about what information they're requesting and all that. But I think we got to get the horse before the cart, not the cart before the horse.

ENGEL: Well, I think we can do both. And frankly, I think Democrats and Republicans can do both. I think Republicans traditionally have not liked either big government or Big Brother kind of snooping in on things. And many Democrats, myself included, we feel that we're civil libertarians, and we don't want people being forced to divulge private things if they don't want to. I mean, I think we have a right to privacy.

CAVUTO: What do you think happens to the worker who doesn't divulge this information or says, None of your business? They're toast, right? They're not going to be hired.

ENGEL: Well, they're toast now, and that's what my bill is trying to get at. We're trying to make it so that it's illegal to do it.

CAVUTO: Illegal for them to even ask?

ENGEL: Yes.

CAVUTO: So if they were to say, you know, It's -- I can't ask you that, but would you be open to my getting your FaceBook password, if that person refuses because that request wouldn't be illegal?

ENGEL: Right. If they refused, then they can't be discriminated against. Now, several states are introducing legislation like this.

CAVUTO: Right.

ENGEL: You know, my own assemblyman in New York, Jeffrey Dinowitz (ph), has introduced in the New York state assembly. In Maryland, they've done it. There are 10 states who have done this now.

CAVUTO: Very few businesses are even interested in this FaceBook stuff. Did you know that? They really aren't.

ENGEL: Well, I don't know. Then they shouldn't have any objection and...

CAVUTO: I just think you're pushing a red herring here.

ENGEL: ... people should be protected. Look, it's just several years ago, I introduced a bill, along with Ron Paul, by the way -- we were the two sponsors of the bill -- to make it illegal for TSA officers to demand a password from someone's private laptop. I feel just as strongly about that. I don't think that that is something...

CAVUTO: It's very good point.

ENGEL: ... that we should be able to give. We need to respect privacy, and I think that this will -- will help to do that.

This stems out a ruling in the Pennsylvania case -- or New Jersey case were people who worked in a restaurant were doing things on line to talk about the restaurant, and then the employer demanded to know their passwords. And when they refused to give them up, he fired them all. They sued, and the court ruled in their favor, that they should not have been fired. So...

CAVUTO: But they were duplicitous little worms do that in the first place, don't you think?

ENGEL: Well, I don't know.

(LAUGHTER)

ENGEL: (INAUDIBLE) know what the court ruled.

CAVUTO: All right.

ENGEL: But I do think we have the right to privacy, and I think it's a very important...

CAVUTO: Fair enough.

ENGEL: ... American concept.

CAVUTO: Fair enough. Congressman, thank you.

ENGEL: Thank you.

CAVUTO: Very good seeing you again.

ENGEL: Good seeing you.

CAVUTO: When we come back, a massive Wal-Mart investor pushing for shareholders to say adios to its leaders because of the mess in Mexico, the pile-on adding up (ph) next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CAVUTO: Wal-Mart stock down again today, down nearly 6 percent since the Mexican bribery allegations first surfaced. Now pension funds with very large stakes in the mega-retailer are fighting back. In California, they're just suing. And in New York, my next guest is trying to put the company's top brass out on their -- well -- well, it rhymes with brass.

Anyway, New York City comptroller John Liu with me right now. Comptroller, very good to see you. Thanks for coming by.

JOHN LIU, NEW YORK CITY COMPTROLLER: That was quite an opening.

(LAUGHTER)

CAVUTO: Well, you know, we're all for rhyming here. You want to actually go a step further, right? So a good chunk of the 5.5 million shares the city has in Wal-Mart (INAUDIBLE) 4.7 million, to do what?

LIU: Yes, well, we've got about -- about a third of a billion dollars worth of shares in Wal-Mart. And it's not -- we're not looking to sell the shares, we're looking to oust the top key directors, who we hold...

CAVUTO: But you said if they don't go...

LIU: ... responsible...

CAVUTO: ... you would sell, right? Is that right?

LIU: We are long-term investors. We don't pick stocks. We invest over $100 billion in the New York City pension funds mostly through index funds. And so we don't necessarily have the ability to split the exact shares out, which is why we're very active in shareholder activism and promoting resolutions, or also, in this case, holding individual directors accountable for what the company has gone through.

CAVUTO: All right, but you are assuming they're guilty. I mean, they might not be.

LIU: We have already been through many discussions over many years, and this also predates my tenure as comptroller. We have in the past had serious concerns about charges that Wal-Mart violated child labor laws, abused immigrant workers.

CAVUTO: No, I understand that, but...

LIU: ... and there have been...

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: This is about whatever they are alleged to have done in Mexico...

LIU: Right.

CAVUTO: ... in order to get (INAUDIBLE) to open stores there. They were bribing people That's a violation of the (INAUDIBLE) and of course, they - - if guilty, their executives would go to the slammer. But an investigation isn't silly (ph). So they are kind of innocent until proven guilty, aren't they?

LIU: Oh, what is clear, though, is that the executives at the very highest levels of this company took actions to cover up what may or may not have happened in Mexico. They're -- and also, they took steps to shut down a thoroughly independent investigation of what had happened in the past. And so while the bribery allegations...

CAVUTO: (INAUDIBLE) And I'm not an apologist for Wal-Mart.

LIU: I understand, Neil.

CAVUTO: (INAUDIBLE) whatever -- that they didn't do that and there were no such, you know, deliberate shutdowns of investigations on their part or outside part, so that you are jumping the gun here, so to speak.

LIU: We do have some indications that, in fact, they did try to shut down the independent investigations. There was a failure on the part of the audit committee, which is supposed to have some semblance of independence through (ph) the board.

CAVUTO: So (INAUDIBLE) you've heard enough to say that they should go.

LIU: That's correct. And on June 1st, we will vote our shares against these five directors.

CAVUTO: Well, you see what I'm saying? The reason why I bring it up with you is, you know, you (INAUDIBLE) your campaign has been (INAUDIBLE) with Jenny Hu (ph), your former fund-raiser. You have stood by her amid reports and charges that she was misappropriating funds or doing something weird in that regard. You stood by her. Many of your campaign staff have stood by her. So obviously, she's kind of innocent until proven guilty.

LIU: And I continue to stand by her and I'm very proud of the way that we...

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: How would you feel if someone said...

LIU: Well, here in this...

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: ... fire her, never welcome her back, she is dead meat, shouldn't welcome her back, period.

LIU: In this case, Neil, it's obvious that with nearly a third of a billion dollars at stake in Wal-Mart for the city's pension funds...

CAVUTO: No, but...

(CROSSTALK)

LIU: Shares have already taken a tumble.

CAVUTO: But you see what I'm saying? It just looks weird.

LIU: There are...

CAVUTO: It looks weird (INAUDIBLE)

LIU: There are incredibly...

CAVUTO: She can stay and you'll stand by her. And that's your (INAUDIBLE) I mean, she's a friend, a key staffer. Stand by her, let's see where this investigation goes. Wal-Mart investigation (INAUDIBLE) done. Ta-ta, see you later.

LIU: Well, as I said before, there are some clear indications that the Wal-Mart directors that we are targeting on June 1st have acted against their...

CAVUTO: OK, but...

(CROSSTALK)

LIU: ... against the long-term...

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: But you don't have the same deal going after Chesapeake Energy, the utility -- the city owns, I think, about 1.5 million shares, right?

LIU: About $27 dollars worth.

CAVUTO: OK. Now, they've been downgraded well into junk territory. They're losing money hand over fist. The stock is down 21 percent this year on fears, according to Fitch Investors, they're getting deeper in debt, deeper in trouble, no way out. Not a peep out of you on them.

LIU: That's not true. For more than a year-and-a-half, we've been going after the Chesapeake board to -- to push for more independent directors.

CAVUTO: (INAUDIBLE) address the board then and some (ph) of the director thing that you wanted, right? You still hang onto them. They're still a falling knife (ph). They don't get nearly the wrath (ph) that Wal-Mart does, not nearly the...

LIU: Well, hold on a second, Neil. I think you may not be totally up to speed on what we're doing with Chesapeake. We're very concerned about what's happening...

CAVUTO: You still own every share in Chesapeake.

LIU: As I said before, it's hard for us, as a...

(CROSSTALK)

LIU: ... pension fund to divest from any specific company. But you're saying that we're letting them off the hook. We're not letting Chesapeake off the hook at all. They've got a shareholder meeting coming up, I think it's the 8th of June or something like that. We've got $27 million in that company...

CAVUTO: And what does that mean? If you can't dislodge the stock, like you can't in this case, you say, and can't in Wal-Mart's case, you can make a statement demanding company executives go -- what are you...

(CROSSTALK)

LIU: ... or try to, in the case of Chesapeake, vote in our independent directors, or at least put them on the ballot. You know, Neil, you can say that -- as a practical matter, a pension fund the size of ours or like other public pension funds across the country, it's hard to divest...

CAVUTO: No doubt...

(CROSSTALK)

LIU: But Neil, do you...

CAVUTO: Look at General Electric, hasn't paid...

LIU: But Neil...

CAVUTO: ... any -- any taxes!

LIU: Do you...

CAVUTO: GE paid no taxes! They're primarily one of the top investments on your list.

LIU: And yet their shares haven't fallen and that we're not as concerned about the long-term value. That is my primary concern.

CAVUTO: But that's not my point. And my point isn't...

LIU: As a fiduciary...

CAVUTO: ... to belittle you. I'm just saying you seem to pick and choose your fights, right? I mean, Wal-Mart, maybe this Mexican thing, after charges, you know, that, you know, they abuse their employees, others that you've mentioned prior (ph) -- this was an opportunity to seize and bash them. But there are plenty of other companies on this list in which the city invests where you don't raise nearly the stink.

LIU: Well, Neil, if you have suggestions as to companies that engage in practices that would cause us concern with regard to their long-term shareholder value and the sustainability of their company, I would be happy to look into the company.

CAVUTO: Well, do you share the president's view.

LIU: But Walmart.

CAVUTO: Let me just ask this, do you share the president's view that oil companies have been a little slippery on this whole gas issue, the oil issue, the run-up in prices, the stubborn slowness in the running down of prices? Do you share that view?

LIU: I do share those views.

CAVUTO: OK. Then why are you such large Exxon Mobil shareholder? Why are you such -- you know, on and on, ConocoPhillips.

LIU: Here again, these are all holdings as part of index funds, and.

CAVUTO: I understand. But if you really feel strongly you would just say, not in my index.

LIU: I know, but, Neil, you're cherry-picking here.

CAVUTO: No, no, no. You're cherry-picking.

LIU: I think you are because Walmart and Chesapeake are not the only companies that we have concerns with. And we have achieved results.

CAVUTO: Here's what I'm saying. This is a very popular issue in New York. A lot of people say you're going to run for mayor, it is looking very clear you're going to run for mayor. These are great populist issues in which to run. I am just saying, are you cherry-picking the causes that might help get you elected?

LIU: You know what, if you want to call going after a company who has been accused of bribery of foreign governments and then trying to cover them up, and you want to say that I'm cherry-picking.

CAVUTO: Oil companies have been accused of worse, of gouging the American people. I am not here to say one sin is worse than the other or the...

(CROSSTALK)

LIU: And, Neil, we will continue to go after companies that we own that it's impossible for us to completely divest from. But to go after them in a way that we think on behalf of the pension funds will enhance and increase long-term shareholder value.

CAVUTO: But you would never sell that stock. You just said you couldn't sell it.

LIU: And the way to increase the sustainability of these companies is not necessarily just to divest or sell our shares. But to use our rights as shareowners and as voters at the annual meeting to implement some kind of long-term change, whether it be holding directors accountable or trying to get some of our own independent directors on the board.

That is the point of these things. And if you have companies that you think we should look at, I would be more than happy to.

CAVUTO: Well, I mentioned a few that (INAUDIBLE). But finally, there are many New Yorkers, assuming you run for mayor of New York, and you have your rabid fans, and you don't poll that poorly, by the way, the campaign issues notwithstanding, the ones that you said are just unfair and trumped, there are a lot of New Yorkers who like Walmart and want a Walmart here, and they want the cheap $4 prescription drugs that Walmart offers and all that. Are you willing to risk ticking them off?

LIU: I think New Yorkers are like most Americans. They like low prices. But New Yorkers also have a sense of what is right. When you hear these charges of violations of child labor laws, of abusing or exploiting immigrant workers, or in this case, bribing foreign government officials and covering it up, I think those are reasons for consumers and the public to have concern.

The public wants low prices, but they want reputable companies to provide low prices and good services and product. They don't want to see companies that, in their relentless pursuit of profits, of expansions, to cut corners, to have short-term.

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: Have you gone to (INAUDIBLE) or grocery store in Manhattan where a box of Tide is like $400?

LIU: Neil, have you been to many of the stores in Brooklyn and Queens where the prices are dirt cheap? They really are.

CAVUTO: All right. So you don't think Walmart would offer any advantage to these.

LIU: In a city like New York, which is, in my unbiased opinion, the greatest city in the world, we have got things that are -- prices that are exorbitant...

CAVUTO: We've got a grocery store, Comptroller, around the corner, we do, and I am not kidding you, I went to get a couple of groceries there, it was like $500. And it wasn't just sandwiches. I am exaggerating a bit.

LIU: Well, but there are stores where you could find the lowest prices anywhere in the country, right here in New York City.

CAVUTO: Well, you're a very fair player. Very good of you to come here. We would love to have you back. This is a big issue. You've generated something here. Comptroller, thank you very, very much.

LIU: Thank you, Neil.

CAVUTO: Stick around, we'll have a lot more right after this.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CAVUTO: In our "FOX Financial Flash," Yahoo! stock is down. Now calls for the CEO to get out. A major investor threatening to sue the board if it does announce Scott Thompson, the same guy who discovered that Thompson's file listed a computer science degree he doesn't have, turns out Thompson was an accounting major.

Car prices are up, but that is not slowing sales down, the average price of a new car rising above $30,000 last month. That is up more than a thousand dollars. But sales are still up by 10 percent. Oil diving $4 today, settling below $100 a barrel for the first time since February. Crude falling 6 percent this week.

The Pentagon spent $15 billion a year on fuel. Those planes and ships are gas guzzlers. So now the defense secretary is pushing for hybrid fleets, kind of like a floating Chevy Volt. Imagine a plug-in aircraft carrier. We thought it would look like this. Maybe not.

The Defense Department's green push could cost a billion bucks. Small business owner Amilya Antonetti says time to unplug it. Amilya, why not a fan of this?

AMILYA ANTONETTI, SMALL BUSINESS OWNER: Hello. You know what, here we go again. It does not make any sense to me. We have already seen what they have been able to do with Solyndra. And that was a disaster. We've seen what they've been able to do with the now green car initiative. That doesn't work. And now we are going to do, what, another make-believe investment to go into the sector?

They haven't got one of them right. Why would I want to invest again? I'm tired of investing my money into industries that they have not vetted correctly.

CAVUTO: You know, I'm just wondering, let's say you are al Qaeda or the Chinese or, who are our villains today? And they hear, like, oh my God, the Americans have plug-in tanks. I mean, I don't know if it conjures up the same fears, you know?

ANTONETTI: It doesn't. And again, we keep -- instead of spending money on our -- you can only focus on so many things at one time. And we really need to be focusing on jobs and the economy and really bringing back a focus...

CAVUTO: Well, maybe this will provide jobs if we have to build an aircraft carrier that you plug in. By the way, you don't always have to plug it in, sometimes they run on batteries, but you get my point.

ANTONETTI: But we already know that that's not true. We already know that there has not been one mathematical equation that has come out of any of these green initiatives that the numbers were even remotely close. They promised jobs, there is no job. They promised return on investment, there is none.

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: But, Amilya, I'm trying to give the benefit of the doubt, really trying. The Navy had a thing, look, if we're beholden -- they're cutting off -- another OPEC-type crisis, you were too young to remember that, where they shut down all the oil fields, no oil to America.

And there are these supertankers out there that run on oil, they're stuck. But no, you can just point the solar panel up and whoosh, fortunately still sail.

ANTONETTI: Yes, and I wish that that was true. But they've already said that the science behind this does not mathematically work. Didn't we hear this before? That the numbers don't work? So you're going to create something we can make. We can't do return on investment, which means it's going to be another dead-end product.

Why don't we take the billion dollars and put it where we know to be true. If you invest in small business, if you invest in innovation, if you invest in manufacturing that's proven, and the numbers work, we'll have jobs, we'll have security, and we'll gain back the leverage that we need. Let's focus on what we know how to do.

CAVUTO: All right. So I'm going to put you down as a no on the USS Volt Antonetti. That's not going to happen. Amilya, thank you very, very much.

ANTONETTI: Thank you, sir.

CAVUTO: Well, is Hollywood a one-party town? George Clooney seems to think so. But there is a growing number of celebs supporting the Grand Ole Party. Pat Boone is one of them. He is next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CAVUTO: Welcome back. The president officially kicking off his campaign tomorrow with stops in Virginia and Ohio. But back in California George Clooney is getting ready to raise some mega-bucks for the mega-prez. Clooney's fund-raiser for next week expected to raise $12 million. Now that would be a record.

Hollywood is a big boon for Democrats, but this Boone says not for him. In fact, he says the Democrats are bust. Legendary singer Pat Boone joins me right now. His new album is called "Pat Boone Sings a Tribute to the Inkspots." I have got to tell you, his voice is exactly what it was when you were a slightly younger man.

PAT BOONE, SINGER: Well, I had laminated at about 37.

(LAUGHTER)

CAVUTO: It is amazing. Really, it is phenomenal. You don't think the president is phenomenal though. You stand out from a lot of your -- I don't want to say Hollywood brethren, but your entertainment crowd friends right?

BOONE: Well, there are plenty, including George Clooney, and so many of the Hollywood folks are ultra liberal, and I'm not. I am conservative. Everybody knows it. We did host, a next-door neighbor up the street from me, Josephine Resenio (ph) and her husband and I put on two of Beverly Hills' tea parties, and astonishing turnouts, 500, 600 people, in front of the Beverly Hills sign on Santa Monica.

And.

CAVUTO: What do the other guys say? There goes the neighborhood?

BOONE: Yes, probably. They were probably surprised. But there were Jewish people, black people, Hispanics, all kinds of people that came and spoke at our Beverly Hills tea party. And not one negative incident. No racial slurs, nothing.

And so there is a growing, a growing conservative element in the entertainment community. Directors, writers, producers.

CAVUTO: But not a lot. I mean, your part -- I mean, maybe so.

BOONE: Not predominant, no.

CAVUTO: I bet it's still 90 percent.

BOONE: Yes, I would say that's probably a pretty good guess.

CAVUTO: All right. So when it gets down to 89 percent, oh, they're turning right. Why is that?

BOONE: Well, I've thought a lot about it. And I think entertainers and entertainment people as a business don't want rules. They don't want people telling them they can't do something if it's going to make money.

And so there is something about conservatives that once structure, guidelines, and still adhering to traditional values. John Wayne, I mean, there was an anti-pornography bill some years ago that I supported with then-Lieutenant Governor John Harmer. And we took a lot of vilification.

And they get John Wayne to be against a Proposition 18 that would have described and made it more easily prosecutable, hardcore XXX pornography. A pretty explicit bill, if you read it, you know, you had to have a cigarette after it, from reading the bill.

But John Wayne, you know, supported the anti-Proposition 18. I called him. I said, Duke, what's -- why is this? He said, well, it's unconstitutional. Who told you that? The lawyers. I said, what lawyers? Well, at Universal, MCA, the industry lawyers.

CAVUTO: Boy, they could even fool The Duke.

BOONE: Yes. And so I said, are you aware that -- I think they called him "Bull" (ph) Copley, of the Copley News Service, and people he greatly respect, ex-military people, that they -- and all the law enforcement up and down the state are for this so they can at least prosecute...

(CROSSTALK)

BOONE: . producers, girls, and animals.

CAVUTO: Didn't matter, right? Didn't matter what the Hollywood.

(CROSSTALK)

BOONE: And he realized he had been had. And he made them take his endorsement off.

CAVUTO: But you haven't suffered for your views. I mean, have you lost parts or movies or I don't know?

BOONE: Yes.

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: . goes, oh, not that square guy.

BOONE: Oh, yes, sure.

CAVUTO: Really?

BOONE: Yes. And not been invited on certain television shows.

CAVUTO: Really?

BOONE: Even my buddy Jay Leno recently -- and he doesn't know I know this, he may find out. But a friend said, why don't you have Pat Boone on "The Tonight Show"? Well, you know, I like him a lot, he's a buddy, but, you know, he's a birther, a birther.

And I'm not a birther. I'm a questioner. And I want our president vetted like anybody -- all the other candidates. And there are unresolved questions that need to be answered. And I.

CAVUTO: And that alienated you right away.

BOONE: Yes.

CAVUTO: Real quick, I wish we had more time, Pat, but the other crowd that sticks loyally to the president, they don't mind that he's gunning for the 1 percent, they don't mind that as long as he is leaving the moral stuff out of it and letting them kind of do their thing, they're OK even if they're going to be taxed more.

BOONE: Yes. Look at George Clooney, makes millions from every time he turns around. And this event coming up, you know, goodness, I'm related to him by marriage. And I admire him greatly.

CAVUTO: Are you really? Could you explain that?

BOONE: Yes, through Rosy Clooney, his aunt, and her son married my daughter Debby. So we're related.

CAVUTO: So how do you get along when you're together?

BOONE: Terrific. We're both athletes.

CAVUTO: Really? He said such horrible things about you too.

(LAUGHTER)

CAVUTO: No, he doesn't.

BOONE: But, I mean, this president has become a celebrity-in-chief.

CAVUTO: He has.

BOONE: Not commander-in-chief. And certainly not a businessman like I hope we're going to elect, who actually ever ran a business. And so I don't think we're ready to be a socialist America. I hope not.

CAVUTO: Well, Pat Boone, whether people agree or disagree, you always stuck to your guns.

BOONE: Yes.

CAVUTO: You've always worn these jackets. There is something to be admired.

BOONE: And I'm representing seniors, 60-plus. And we are going to be out in force in this election.

CAVUTO: You do. You look out for them.

BOONE: And you know I'm stumping for us America to take the lead in nuclear fusion again. Not fission, but fusion. And things I hope for energy for the future, and this administration...

CAVUTO: You carry, young man. You carry and it shows. I appreciate.

BOONE: I am. I'm going to be involved.

CAVUTO: All right. You're not going to let go that easy.

BOONE: No.

CAVUTO: Pat Boone, thank you very, very much.

When we come back, the billionaire CEO who can rescue the economy, not that Buffett guy who wants to tax millionaires, this Stark guy who is stopping attacks from aliens. How Iron Man would save jobs and the world, maybe by wearing Pat Boone's jackets.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CAVUTO: All right. You've got to be here during the breaks. It's really the best part of the show. Anyway, "The Avengers" movie finally released, and what a relief, because I think this group of super heroes could save this recovery, unlike the super zero leaders that we have got in Washington in both parties.

For one, Iron Man, he's a billionaire CEO, who, unlike the government, does not just throw his money away. He invests wisely, in this case in a super suit.

Or Thor, I bet he would use his hammer to knock some sense into Congress to stop hammering business with taxes. And, yes, even the Hulk, I personally relate to him, he may have a temper, but then again, who really doesn't, right? Maybe that is what we need to get countries like China to be scared of us, just beat the hell of them.

Now I'm thinking to myself, it's a shame these guys aren't real because we're in a real mess. To our "All-Stars" who sadly are real that are joining me now. Jonathan, I think that's what we need.

JONATHAN HOENING, CAPITALISTPIG ASSET MANAGEMENET: The Incredible Hulk, Neil, you think that all this...

CAVUTO: All of them, I think we need all of them.

HOENIG: . economy is missing -- He-Man? She-Ra? We could get Jem in there, we could get the transformers, throw them all in there. I have to say, I disagree. We don't need a hero with brawn. We need a hero with brains. The other one that comes to mind isn't one of the "The Avengers," isn't The Incredible Hulk, it's actually John Galt from "Atlas Shrugged."

We need at a hero in the Aristotelian sense of the word. We need someone who understands that freedom and individual rights are what makes an economy strong.

CAVUTO: Phone call from Captain America, also very smart, takes umbrage to you floating a character.

HOENIG: Well, he is patriotic.

CAVUTO: . in a book. What do you make of this, guys? I mean, I'm looking at this and I'm thinking, wait a minute, we are just not serious about this, Adam? We're just not serious about tackling our problems.

ADAM LASHINSKY, FORTUNE: Well, I'm happy to -- or for better or worse I'm fairly ignorant about this movie you're talking about, Neil. I guess I've had my -- I guess I've been focused elsewhere.

I think we are as a country, we're not serious about tackling our problems. But I think that our leaders are serious about trying. And I would rather, Jonathan, that we keep our democratic form of government than we look for some comic book savior.

CAVUTO: But we lost that. But nor we need -- that's why I think these movies are so popular, because people are longing for superheroes.

LENORE HAWKINS, PRINCIPAL, MERITAS ADVISORS : Absolutely. In any economic downturn, there is always a resurgence of the hero myth. Right now Americans are desperate for principled leadership. Americans are desperate to be the hero in our own lives. Instead we have a paternalistic government that keeps telling us that we can't possibly take care of ourselves. So of course the movie like this is as escape from that.

CAVUTO: Well, that's it. I wish we had more time. By the way, I was supposed to be the eighth hero, "Anchorman," I turned it down for this show. Have a great weekend.

(LAUGHTER)

END

Content and Programming Copyright 2012 Fox News Network, LLC. ALL    RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2012 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.    All materials herein    are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,    distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the    prior written permission of CQ-Roll Call. You may not alter or remove any    trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.      

Document FBNCVT0020120506e85400001



NEWS
Readers Write

STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)      
877 words
2 May 2012
Star-Tribune
MSP
METRO
12A
English
Copyright 2012. The Star Tribune Company.    All rights reserved.      

WAL-MART BRIBES

Columnist's argument in favor was flawed

Bribery is the mother's milk of the Mexican economy, and Wal-Mart de Mexico is no doubt part of the pay-to-play world ("A little greasing of the wheels is good for a local economy," May 1). But it's a stretch to agree with Steve Chapman that greasing some palms is the mechanism to a "better life" for Mexicans.

The consequences of bribery are seen in compromised building codes, weakened environmental and workplace rules, tax avoidance, and disrespect for police and the rule of law. The teenager-worthy "everyone does it" rationalization enables simple bribery to be the gateway to larger-scale corruption.

If it works in Acapulco, why can't it work at home?

ROBERT SCHIESEL, MINNEAPOLIS

- - -

Chapman's argument that the United States shouldn't try to enforce its ethics elsewhere raises a few questions. So, the U.S. shouldn't have interfered in Libya and shouldn't be involved in Syria, North Korea, Iran or the Balkan states, and shouldn't continuously call out China on its human-rights policies? All for the sake of U.S. corporate profits?

Ethics fall under the general category of "values." The United States has been trying to expand its values, as expressed in our Bill of Rights, since its inception, both at home and abroad.

If we don't enforce laws governing private American businesses' unethical dealings with or in other countries, then we don't have a leg to stand on when we question other countries' brutal treatment of their own people, much less enforce our own ethics laws at home. And, if bribery is good for another country's local economy, why isn't it good for us? Because it's just such corruption that led us into a devastating recession and political impotence.

KEVIN DRISCOLL, ST. PAUL

Vikings stadium

Sports business model works only by coercion

Finally, a Star Tribune columnist has shone a light on the central issue in the stadium debate. In her April 29 column, Lori Sturdevant wrote, "The professional-sports business model now demands facilities that generate megarevenue." This is a business model that is fundamentally broken. We are endlessly asked to support a private, for-profit industry whose business model includes the general public being coerced to underwrite half of the infrastructure and a significant portion of the operating costs without any expectation of a return. How can any government entity, not just in these difficult economic times, but at any time, consider supporting this business model?

We are frequently told that in capitalism the free market demands a business model where expenses and revenues are properly balanced. If the model does not achieve the proper balance, that business will be destined to fail. If we're not going to demand this sort of business model, we might as well just admit that the professional sports franchises are going to be allowed to reach into our pockets whenever it suits them, regardless of whether we are consumers of their product.

TOM MOONEY, MINNETONKA

Health care

Misplaced outrage on payment collection

People should not be mistreated by payment collectors in any situation, most especially when needing medical care ("Even in the ER, bill collectors," April 29). However, the excessive attention and even outrage is misplaced.

Where is the outrage directed at those who present themselves for medical care without the ability to pay?

Where is the outrage directed at a society-enabled government that eliminated private insurance for people 65 and older with the implementation of Medicare? Where is the outrage against a system that shifts costs to taxpayers and other privately paying health care consumers?

Where is the outrage against a system that provided a tax benefit only to employer-provided health insurance, discriminating against individually purchased insurance?

Where is the outrage against the health insurance coverage mandates in Minnesota that make insurance less affordable and limit access to it?

Where is the outrage over the mandates known as EMTALA and COBRA for shifting the cost of medical care to the innocent taxpayer and private payer for the care of those who have not taken personal responsibility for their care?

PAUL HYLAND, WOODBURY

SIZE 26 SHOES NEEDED

Look to an artisan, not a conglomerate

I feel bad for the 7-foot, 8-inch man who can't find properly fitting shoes ("Donors foot the bill for mega shoes," April 28). However, I'm baffled that the only solution mentioned is to get a large manufacturer to make a one-off pair using laser technology. In the past, shoes were handmade to a person's measurements. Mass production did not take over because it made better goods but because it was a way to make goods more cheaply in large quantities.

If you want a custom item, why would you look to a large corporation? Believe it or not, there are still some people making shoes, as well as many other items we only think of mass-produced, by hand. One place to find such artisans is on etsy.com. The prices are higher than at Wal-Mart but are competitive with "designer" mass-produced goods.

HEIDI HARDNER, MINNEAPOLIS

Document MSP0000020120503e8520002n

Search Summary

 All of these words

     At least one of these words
discrimination discriminatory discriminate discriminates discriminated discriminating harassment
     None of these words

     This exact phrase

     Date
05/02/2012 to 07/01/2012
     Source
All Sources
     Author
All Authors
     Company
Walmart Inc
     Subject
All Subjects
     Industry
All Industries
     Region
All Regions
     Language
English
     Results Found
36
     Timestamp
16 June 2023 10:28 AM
    
